From ebay at eBay.com  Thu Oct  5 15:30:22 2006
From: ebay at eBay.com (ebay@eBay.com)
Date: Thu Oct  5 16:47:16 2006
Subject: [Cidoc-harmony-wg] eBay sent this message from brooks laura
	(laurapurp3)
Message-ID: <20061005193022.6C60C3A8D4D@s1.www-to-go.de>

An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: http://openarchives.org/pipermail/cidoc-harmony-wg/attachments/20061005/94027e49/attachment-0001.htm
From leshydonlop at yahoo.co.uk  Mon Oct 30 23:25:56 2006
From: leshydonlop at yahoo.co.uk (leshydonlop)
Date: Mon Oct 30 23:28:53 2006
Subject: [Cidoc-harmony-wg] The Stories of "Made in China"
Message-ID: <t048860f3jfftjy.311020061525@ktxy>

Stories of "Made in China" (1)

In this issue, we continue our discussion of slave labor in China.

The Chinese communist regime has one primary goal: to maintain power at all cost.

Those who insist on their beliefs and place their conscience above the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) 
face the full weight of the Chinese regime. For having such courage, they may be charged with 
"betraying" their homeland or "revealing state secrets." They risk loss of reputation, long-term 
imprisonment, torture, and even death.

A primary method of suppression is punishment by "re-education through labor." Skilled at propaganda 
that twists logic and common sense, the CCP claims that such punishment gives people a chance to 
"reform" themselves. Crushed by methods perfected over the ages, they give up their conscience and 
"reform" into "patriotic" beings that never question the CCP.

The low cost of products made with slave labor has attracted great demand for them around the world. 
For corrupt officials, the forced labor camps are such a profitable business that they care little that the 
millions of inmates in the estimated 1,200 camps nationwide have never had a trial or a chance to 
defend their innocence.

We bring you the stories of two such souls - Falun Gong practitioners who were imprisoned for their 
beliefs and forced to endure "re-education" through grueling forced labor for refusing to betray their 
conscience, making goods for export to western countries.

--- Story 1 ---

I Hope Children Don't Put Them in Their Mouths

By Wang Bin, Ph.D.

During the years 2000 and 2001, the Chinese National Security Division of the Beijing Police 
Department arrested a large group of intellectuals who practiced Falun Gong, including university 
professors. They were tortured until they accepted the Party's "reeducation." This was proclaimed to 
the outside world as being done gently as "a breeze and rainfall in spring." I was one of them.

I was kept in a gloomy prison cell on death row with about 30 prisoners who were waiting to be 
executed. The cell was only about 30 square meters (about 323 square feet). When I was first 
imprisoned in this cell, I could smell all kinds of stinky odors from feces, urine, mold, rotten flesh and 
materials. After a few months, I could no longer smell anything. I was used to the smell that permeated 
the cell all day.

It was so quiet in the cell that one could even hear a needle drop. Everyone took advantage of this short 
silence to ponder over his past. One day after another, quite a few people were getting closer and closer 
to execution day.

Doors 

The prison cell had two doors, the front and the back. The front door was a thick iron door and an iron 
fence. The back door was also an iron door, as big as the front door. The front door was an 
entrance-exit where prisoners were escorted in and out, or dragged out for execution.

Ten armed-policemen guarded the door against potential runaways. Every time the front door was 
opened, it could mean someone was to die soon.

Air and Sun 

"Open the cage!" the loud shout came from a policeman standing on the top. It broke into my thinking 
and the stillness of the cell. The pale, unkempt prisoners started to show a hint of happiness on their 
faces. One by one, prisoners walked outside of the back door. They nodded and bowed to show their 
gratitude to the policeman. Then they quickly occupied a place with more sunlight.

The first time I was let out, I was shocked by what I saw. The first thing the prisoners did was get 
naked. The scabies, sores and psoriasis on their bodies were fully exposed. I was not too surprised by 
this.

Survivors and Labor 

If they were not sentenced to death, the inmates surviving the detention center were sent to prisons to 
complete their sentence and do slave labor. They brought their infections and sexually transmitted 
diseases with them to the prisons, while they provided a vast cheap work force. An amazing number of 
products made in China are produced in prisons and forced labor camps.

In May 2002, I was sent to the Beijing Repatriation Division of Provincial Criminals with several other 
Falun Gong practitioners. We were waiting to be repatriated to other prisons to serve our sentence. 
>From this experience I gained a real understanding of the forced labor in prisons.

We were expected to labor tirelessly. The routine was to labor for 15 or 16 hours a day. If anyone had 
trouble finishing the assigned work, he was punished by having to "sing until the dawn," which meant 
he had to keep working and could not sleep. Since the cells were more than full, the prisoners had no 
time to take care of personal hygiene. They counted the days, with their diseases worsening day by day.

I was arrested for practicing Falun Gong. I had committed no crimes. So I just considered myself as a 
"correspondent" sent there to seriously observe what was happening around me. I hoped that one day 
my observations would enable the world to have a better understanding of what goes on in Chinese 
prisons.

>From Christmas to Underwear 

Our tasks included packing women's underwear, making copies of audio and video materials, attaching 
trademarks to various products, processing books, binding books, and making fishing floats, colored 
Christmas bulbs and accessories to be exported. I participated in all of the manual labor and had a good 
understanding of each work procedure.

During one hot summer, the prison authorities ordered us to make packages for Gracewell underwear. It 
was really hot and yet the prisoners hadn't showered for a very long time. They scratched all over their 
bodies, while being engaged in manual labor. Some of the prisoners scratched their private parts every 
now and again. When they took out their hands, I saw blood on their fingernails. I was not sure if 
women would really look graceful in that underwear.

Another time, the prisoners processed a kind of packaged food called "Orchid Beans" for some small 
business owners.  

This snack was made from broad beans. They kept trucking broad beans into the prison. In the prison 
there were barrels in which the broad beans were soaked in water until they were swollen. To spare 
themselves some trouble when changing water in the barrels, sometimes the prisoners would dump a 
whole barrel of beans into a dirty urinal and then pour water into the barrel putting the beans inside. 
When the beans became swollen in the water, the prisoners would start to peel the beans. In front of 
each person there was a set of parallel knives. The prisoner picked up a bean, rolling it over the knife 
and removing the bean skin on either side leaving a "golden belt" in the middle. In this way the beans 
looked good, though they were dirty and muddy. Then, the last step was to throw the beans back into 
the basket.

At least 10,000 beans had to be peeled in one day to finish the assignment. As the prisoners bustled 
around peeling the beans, their mucus and sputum mixed with the beans. Then the processed beans 
were put into a big bag to be taken to the stores where they would be fried. The fried broad beans 
looked golden and shining. They packed them in beautiful packages and sold them to customers.

The broad beans are in demand in the market and thus provide a high profit to sellers. Consumers enjoy 
the beans.  

In a U.S. supermarket, I saw fried broad beans imported from China. I wondered if our prison had 
made those beans.

Annually, a large number of Christmas items and clothing for western countries are made in Chinese 
prisons. Once the prison was assigned to make light bulbs. Every day prisoners were supposed to tie 
copper wires tightly around a plastic tank in a fixed shape and then connect all the light bulbs together. 
The prisoners' hands were usually bleeding. Needless to say, that stuff from their skin and sexually 
transmitted diseases were left on the light bulbs.

Once the prison I was in made strings of beads as jewelry accessories. The prisoners used needles and 
thread to string colored beads and then connected the two ends to make a string of beads. The strings of 
beads looked beautiful. But, I hope that women don't put them around their necks and that children will 
not put them in their mouths.

-- Story 2: My Experience in a Chinese Labor Camp, Ms. Chen Ying, currently residing in France

Stories of "Made in China" (2)
Posted by chinaview on July 17th, 2006

flghrwg.net/

France resident: My Experience in a Chinese Labor Camp

I was imprisoned between November 2000 and November 2001 for refusing to give up practicing 
Falun Gong. During that period of time, I was held in servitude at the Tuanhe Prisoner Dispatch Center 
and the Xin'an Forced Labor Camp in Beijing.

Products Made 

Beijing Tuanhe Prisoner Dispatch Center 
Packaged large quantities of disposable chopsticks. Most of them were for use in restaurants and hotels, 
while some were exported. 
Made "Florence Gift Packages" 
Beijing Xin'an Labor Camp 
Packaged large quantities of disposable chopsticks. Most of them were for use in restaurants and hotels, 
while some were exported. 
Knit sweaters. 
Knit woolen gloves (exported to Europe). 
Crocheted cushions for tea sets. 
Crocheted hats for a company in Qinghe Township, Beijing. 
Knit seat cushions. 
Re-processed sweaters; removed sundries from yarn. 
Made large quantities of slippers. The job was mainly gluing the sole and the instep together, and the 
labor camp demanded a high-quality product. When I was there, it was the hottest time of the summer. 
Many practitioners and I were working in our prison cells. Working in a humid prison cell full of 
irritating glue odors was suffocating. We worked until midnight or one o'clock in the morning every 
time there was a shipment. 
Made stuffed animals, such as rabbits, bears, dolphins, penguins, etc. Major steps included putting the 
stuffing material inside, stitching the doll together, sewing the eyes, stitching the mouth, etc. 
The Sanitation and Living Conditions of the Forced Labor Camp 

(1) Beijing Tuanhe Prisoner Dispatch Center

I was locked up with over a dozen other Falun Gong practitioners in a cell that was about twelve square 
meters (130 square feet) in size. There were only eight bunk beds in the room; thus, some of us had to 
sleep on the floor. We did everything in this cell, including working, eating, drinking, and using the 
toilet; therefore, there were many flies and mosquitoes. We were allowed to eat only at certain times. 
Water was rationed, and drinking water was limited. The prison guards never allowed us to wash our 
hands before meals. After a meal, we had to get back to work immediately. Twice a day, we were given 
five minutes for personal hygiene. When the time was up, we were forced to stop and not allowed to 
take any water back to our cell. If we could not finish the work assigned to us, we were not allowed to 
clean ourselves. When there was a rush to get products out, we had to work late and go to sleep without 
washing. There were fixed times for the whole group of practitioners to go and use the toilet. Even then, 
we still had to ask the guards for permission. We were allowed two minutes to use the toilet each time; 
thus, many people did not even have enough time to have a bowel movement. We could go to bed only 
at the specified time; otherwise, we would be scolded and not allowed to sleep. At night, the guards 
locked up all the cells. A small bucket in each cell was used for a toilet. We were watched even during 
sleep.

We were allowed very little sleep each day, and forced to start working the moment we opened our eyes. 
My hands had blisters and thick calluses from working long hours to finish the assigned quota of 
packaging disposable chopsticks. I often worked until midnight. We were not allowed to sleep unless 
we finished the quota. We were forced to work over 16 hours every day, and everything was done in 
our cells. The sanitation conditions were extremely poor. Even though we were packaging disposable 
chopsticks and the label said the chopsticks were disinfected at a high temperature, the entire process 
was unhygienic. We could not wash our hands, and we had to package those chopsticks that had fallen 
on the floor. In order to seek a huge profit, Tuanhe Prisoner Dispatch Center and Tuanhe Labor Camp 
disregarded the health of the general public and knowingly committed such wrongdoings.  

Many restaurants in Beijing are currently using these chopsticks. I heard they are even being exported 
to other countries.

Female practitioners are forced to perform excessive physical labor. We were forced to unload trucks 
full of bagged materials that weighed over 100 pounds each. We had to carry the bags on our shoulders 
from the truck to our cells.  

Other physical labors included digging pits, planting trees, and transporting fertilizers. The police 
exploited our labor to create illegal income for themselves. The dispatch center did not compensate us 
for any of our work. In fact, we were forced to do long and hard labor without any compensation.

(2) Beijing Xin'an Labor Camp

Both our bodies and minds were imprisoned and severely persecuted under the excessive workload. 
The police often prevented us from sleeping at regular hours. When there were work orders, we had to 
work day and night to produce the best product in the shortest amount of time.

All the work in the labor camp is labor-intensive. Falun Gong practitioners are forced to work until 
midnight under dim lights, and everyone has a quota to meet. If a practitioner cannot finish the quota, 
he/she is not allowed to sleep. One time we were making gift items for Nestlé; these items included 
knitted products and crocheted cushions.  

In order to meet the shipping deadline, we were forced to work in the hallway or lavatories until one or 
two o'clock in the morning; sometimes we worked through the whole night. The police used this 
method to control our thoughts. They would not let us have a single moment of idle time to think 
calmly, and we were not allowed to talk to each other. They had drug addicts and "transformed" 
practitioners monitoring us. They wanted us to do nothing but work.

During summer time, our cells were so hot that people sometimes collapsed from heat exhaustion. 
Many practitioners developed symptoms of hypertension and heart disease from overwork. Their entire 
bodies twitched.

---

Ms. Chen Ying was detained three times for practicing Falun Gong. She had been sent to a forced labor 
camp for one year while she was visiting her family in China. Prison guards forcefully injected her with 
toxic drugs, resulting in damage to the nerves on the left side of her body, spasms, and partial memory 
loss. Ms. Chen is currently residing in France.

flghrwg.net   Posted by chinaview on July 17th, 200
-------------- next part --------------
Epoch Times Commentaries on the Chinese Communist Party - Part 9
The Chinese Communist Party, a Band of Scoundrels
Foreword
For over a century, the boisterous Communist movement has only brought mankind 
war, poverty, brutality and dictatorship. With the collapse of the Soviet Union 
and the Eastern European Communist Parties, this disastrous and absurd drama 
finally entered its last stage by the end of the last century. No one, from the 
ordinary citizens to the General Secretary of the Communist Party, believes in 
the myth of Communism anymore. 
The Chinese Communist regime came into being due to neither “divine mandate” [1] 
nor democratic election. Today, with its ideology destroyed, the legitimacy of 
its reign is facing an unprecedented challenge. 
The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is unwilling to leave the historical stage in 
obedience to history. Instead, it is using the ruthless methods developed during 
decades of political campaigns to renew its search for legitimacy and its 
attempt to revive its dead mandate. 
The CCP’s policies of reform and opening up disguise a desperate intention to 
maintain its totalitarian rule. The economic achievements earned by the hard 
work of the Chinese people in the past twenty years did not persuade the CCP to 
put down its butcher knife. Instead, the CCP co-opted these achievements to 
validate its reign and to cover up and glamorize its consistent scoundrel 
behavior. What is most terrifying is that the CCP is going all out to try to 
destroy the moral foundation of the entire nation, attempting to turn every 
Chinese national to various degrees into a scoundrel in order to create an 
environment favorable for the CCP to “advance with time.” 
In the historical moment today, it is especially important for us to understand 
clearly why the CCP acts like scoundrels and to discern its criminal nature, so 
that the Chinese nation can achieve lasting stability and peace, enter as soon 
as possible an era devoid of the CCP, and construct a future of renewed national 
splendor. 
******************
I. The Scoundrel Nature of the CCP Has Never Changed 
Who Is the CCP’s Reform for? 
Throughout history, whenever the CCP encountered crises, it would demonstrate 
some traces of improvement, enticing people to develop illusions about the CCP. 
Without exception, the illusions are shattered time and again. Today, the CCP 
has pursued short-term benefits and in doing so produced a show of economic 
prosperity that has once again persuaded the people to believe in fantasies 
about the CCP. However, the fundamental conflicts between the interest of the 
CCP and that of the nation and the people determine that this false prosperity 
will not last. The ‘reform’ the CCP has promised has one purpose: to maintain 
its reign. It is a lame reform, a change in surface but not in substance. 
Underneath the lopsided development lies a great social crisis. Once the crisis 
breaks out, the nation and the people will suffer once again. 
With the change of leadership, the new generation of CCP leaders had no part in 
the Communist revolution, and therefore have less and less prestige in managing 
the nation. Amidst the crisis of its legitimacy, the CCP’s protection of the 
Party’s interests has increasingly become the basic guarantee for maintaining 
the interests of individuals within the CCP. The CCP’s nature is unconstrained 
selfishness; to hope such a party might devote itself to developing the country 
peacefully is wishful thinking. 
Let us look at what People’s Daily, the mouthpiece of the CCP, said in a front 
page story on July 12th, 2004: “The historical dialectics have taught the CCP 
members the following: Those things that should be changed must change, 
otherwise deterioration will follow; those that should not be changed must 
remain unchanged, otherwise it will lead to self destruction.” 
What is it that should remain unchanged? The People’s Daily explains: “The 
Party’s basic line of ‘one center, two basic points’ must last solidly for one 
hundred years without any vacillation.” [2] 
People don’t necessarily understand what the ‘center’ and ‘basic points’ stand 
for, but everyone knows that the Communist specter’s determination to maintain 
its collective interest and dictatorship never changes. Communism has been 
defeated globally, and is doomed to become more and more moribund. Nevertheless, 
the more corrupt a thing becomes the more destructive it becomes during its 
dying struggle. To discuss democratic improvements with the Communist Party is 
like asking a tiger for its skin. 
What Would China Do Without the Communist Party? 
As the CCP heads toward deterioration, people unexpectedly discover that for 
decades the evil specter CCP has, with its ever changing roguish means, 
instilled its elements into every aspect of ordinary people’s lives. 
At the time of Mao Zedong’s death, so many Chinese cried bitterly before Mao’s 
portrait, wondering repeatedly, “How can China continue without Chairman Mao?” 
Ironically, twenty years later, when the world is questioning the political 
legitimacy of the Communist Party, the CCP has spread a new round of propaganda, 
making people wonder again, "What would China do without the Communist Party?” 
In reality, the CCP’s all-pervasive political control has so deeply branded our 
culture and our mindsets that even the criteria with which we judge the CCP have 
come from the CCP. If in the past the CCP controlled people by instilling its 
elements into them, then the CCP has now come to harvest what it sowed, since 
those things instilled in people’s minds have been digested and absorbed into 
their very cells. People think according to the CCP’s logic and put themselves 
in the CCP's shoes in judging right and wrong. Regarding the CCP’s killing of 
student protesters on June 4, 1989, some people said, “If I were Deng Xiaoping, 
I too would quell the protest with tanks.” In the persecution of Falun Gong, 
some people are saying, "If I were Jiang Zemin, I too would eliminate Falun 
Gong.” About the ban on free speech, some people are saying, "If I were the CCP, 
I would do the same.” Truth and conscience have vanished, leaving only the CCP’s 
logic. This has been the consequence of the extremely vile and ruthless methods 
used by the CCP. As long as the CCP can continually instill its moral toxins 
into the people’s minds, it can continue to gain energy to sustain itself. 
"What would China do without the CCP?" This mode of thinking fits precisely the 
CCP’s desires of having people reason by its own logic. 
China came through her 5000-year history of civilization without the CCP; no 
country in the world would stop social advancement because of the fall of a 
particular regime. After decades of the CCP's rule, however, people no longer 
recognize this fact. The CCP's prolonged propaganda has trained people to think 
of the Party as their mother. The omnipresent CCP politics have rendered people 
faint in thinking how to live their lives without the CCP. 
Without Mao Zedong, China did not fall; would China collapse without the CCP!? 
Who Is the Real Source of Turmoil? 
Many people know and dislike the CCP's scoundrel behavior, and loathe its 
struggles and deceptions. But they, at the same time, fear the CCP’s political 
movements and the resultant turmoil, and fear chaos will visit China again. 
Thus, once the CCP threatens people with “turmoil,” people fall into a silent 
acceptance of the CCP’s rule, feeling helpless in the face of the CCP’s despotic 
power. 
In reality, with its several million troops and armed police, the CCP is the 
real source of turmoil. Ordinary citizens have neither the cause nor the 
capability to initiate turmoil. Only the regressive CCP would be so reckless as 
to bring the country into turmoil. “Stability overrides everything else” and 
“Nipping the buds of all unstable elements”—these slogans have become the 
theoretical basis for the CCP to suppress people. Who is the biggest cause of 
instability in China? Is it not the CCP, who specializes in tyranny? The CCP 
instigates turmoil, and then in turn uses the chaos it created to coerce the 
people. This is a common behavior of all scoundrels. 
******************
II. Economic Development Is Sacrificed by the CCP 
Taking Credit for the Achievements of People’s Hard Work 
The CCP’s claim to legitimacy lies in the economic development over the past 20 
some years. In reality, however, such a development was gradually achieved by 
the Chinese people after the fetters of the CCP were slightly relaxed and, 
therefore, has nothing to do with the CCP’s own merit. The CCP has, however, 
claimed this economic development as its own achievement, asking people to be 
grateful for it. The CCP would hope people to believe that none of these 
developments would have taken place without the CCP, while we all know that many 
non-Communist countries have achieved faster economic growth a long time ago. 
Having won Olympic gold medals, the athletes are required to thank the Party. 
The Party did not hesitate to use the forged image of a “great nation of sports” 
to eulogize its sagacious leadership. China suffered a great deal in the SARS 
epidemic, but People's Daily reportedly said that China defeated the virus 
“relying on the Party's basic theory, basic line, basic principle, and basic 
experience.” The launching of China’s spaceship Shenzhou-V was accomplished by 
the professionals of astronautic science and technology, but the CCP used it as 
an evidence to prove that only the CCP could lead the Chinese people to enter 
the rank of powerful countries in the world. As for China’s hosting of the 2008 
Olympic Games, what was in reality an “olive branch” given by Western countries 
to encourage China to improve its human rights, the CCP uses to burnish its 
claims to legitimacy and to use as a pretext for suppressing the Chinese people. 
China’s “great market potential,” which is sought after by foreign investors, 
stems from the consumption power of China’s population of 1.3 billion. The CCP 
usurps credit for this potential, and turns it into a keen weapon used to coerce 
western society into cooperating with the CCP’s rule. 
The CCP attributes anything bad to reactionary forces and the ulterior motives 
of individuals, while crediting everything good to the Party leadership. The CCP 
will make use of every single achievement to make its claim to legitimacy more 
attractive. Even the wrongdoings that the CCP commits can be turned into 
something good to serve its purposes. For example, when the truth about the 
rampant spreading of AIDS could no longer be covered up, the CCP suddenly 
created a new identity. It carefully mobilized its propaganda machine, utilizing 
everyone from well-known actors to Party secretaries in order to portray the 
prime culprit, the CCP, as a blessing for patients, a destroyer of AIDS, and a 
challenger to disease. In dealing with such a serious life-and-death issue, all 
the CCP could think of was how to use the issue to glorify itself. Only as 
vicious a scoundrel as the CCP is capable of such ruthless behaviors as brazen 
or underhanded taking of credits and an utter disregard for human life. 
Economic Disadvantage Caused by Short-Sighted Behaviours 
Facing a serious “legitimacy crisis,” the CCP carried out the policies of reform 
and openness in the 1980’s in order to maintain its rule. Its eagerness for a 
quick success has placed China in a disadvantageous position termed by 
economists as the “curse of the latecomer.” 
The concepts of “curse of the latecomer” or “latecomer advantage” refer to the 
fact that underdeveloped countries, which set out late for development, can 
imitate the developed countries in many aspects. The imitation can take two 
forms: imitating the social system, or imitating the technological and 
industrial models. Imitating a social system is usually difficult, since a 
system reform would endanger the vested interests of some social or political 
groups; thus underdeveloped countries are inclined to imitate developed 
countries’ technologies. Although technological imitation can generate 
short-term economic growth, it may result in many hidden risks or even failure 
in long-term development. 
It is precisely the “curse to the latecomer,” a path to failure, that the CCP 
has followed. Over the past two decades, China’s “technological imitation” has 
led to some achievements, which have been taken by the CCP to its own advantage 
in order to prove its “legitimacy” and continue to resist political reform that 
would undermine the CCP’s own interests. Thus, the long-term interests of the 
nation have been sacrificed. 
A Painful Cost for the CCP’s Economic Development 
While the CCP constantly brags about its economic advancement, in reality, 
China’s economy today ranks lower in the world than during the Qianlong’s reign 
(1711-1799) in the Qing Dynasty. During the Qianlong period, China’s GDP 
accounted for 51 percent of the world’s total. In the early years after Sun 
Yat-sen founded the Republic of China (Kuomintang or KMT period), China’s GDP 
accounted for 27 percent of the world’s total. By 1923, the percentage dropped, 
but still was as high as 12 percent. In 1949, when the CCP took control, the 
percentage was 5.7, but in 2003, China’s GDP was less than 4 percent of the 
world’s total. In contrast to the economic downsizing during the KMT period that 
was caused by several decades of war, the continuing economic decline during the 
CCP’s reign occurred during peaceful times. 
Today, in order to legitimize its power, the CCP was eager for quick successes 
and instant benefits. The crippled economic reform that the CCP launched to 
safeguard its interests has cost the country dearly. The rapid economic growth 
in the past twenty years is, to a large extent, built on the excessive use or 
even waste of resources, and has been gained at the cost of environmental 
destruction. A considerable portion of China’s GDP is achieved by sacrificing 
the opportunities of future generations. In 2003, China contributed less than 4 
percent to the world economy, but its consumption of steel, cement and other 
materials amounted to one third of the total global consumption.[3] 
>From the 1980’s to the end of the 1990’s, desertification in China increased 
from a little over 1000 to 2460 square kilometres. The per-capita arable land 
also decreased from about 2 mu in 1980 to 1.43 mu in 2003 [4]. The widespread 
upsurge of land enclosure for development has led China to lose 100 million mu 
of arable land in just a few years time. The confiscated land, however, has as a 
use rate as low as 43 percent. Currently, the total amount of wastewater 
discharge is 43.95 billion tons, exceeding the environmental capacity by 82 
percent. In the seven major river systems, 40.9 percent of the water is not 
suitable for drinking by humans or livestock. Seventy-five percent of the lakes 
are polluted so as to produce various degrees of eutrophication.[5] The 
conflicts between man and nature in China have never been as intense as they are 
today. Neither China nor the world can withstand such unhealthy growth. Deluded 
by the superficial resplendence of high rises and mansions, people are unaware 
of the impending ecological crisis. Once the time comes for nature to take 
revenge upon human beings, however, it will bring disastrous consequences to the 
Chinese nation. 
In comparison, Russia, after abandoning Communism, has carried out economic and 
political reforms at the same time. After experiencing a short period of agony, 
it has embarked on a rapid development. From 1999 to 2003, Russia’s GDP 
increased by a total of 29.9 percent. The living standard of its residents has 
been significantly improved. The Western business circles have begun not only to 
discuss the “Russian economic phenomenon,” but have also begun to invest in 
Russia, the new hotspot, on a large scale. Russia’s ranking among the most 
attractive nations for investment has jumped from 17th in 2002 to 8th in 2003, 
becoming one of the world’s top ten popular nations for investment for the first 
time. 
Even India, a country that in the minds of most Chinese is poverty-stricken and 
full of ethnic conflicts, has enjoyed a significantly expedited development and 
achieved an economic growth rate of 7-8 percent per year since its economic 
reforms in 1991. India has a relatively complete legal system in a market 
economy, a healthy financial system, a well-developed democratic system, and a 
stable public mentality. It has been recognized by the international community 
as a country of great development potential. 
On the contrary, the CCP only engages in economic reform without making 
political reform. The false appearance of an economy that flourishes in the 
short run, which created an illusion of the socialist system, has hindered the 
natural “evolution of social systems.” It is this incomplete reform that has 
caused an increasing imbalance in the Chinese society and sharpened social 
conflicts. The financial gains achieved by the people are not systematically 
protected by a stable legal and constitutional system. Furthermore, in the 
process of privatizing the state-owned properties, the CCP’s power-holders have 
utilized their positions to fill their own pockets. 
CCP’s Repeated Cheating of Peasants 
CCP relied on peasants to gain power; the rural residents in the CCP-controlled 
areas in the early stage of its buildup devoted all they had to the CCP. But 
after the CCP obtained control of the country, peasants have experienced severe 
discrimination. 
After the CCP established the government, it set up a very unfair system: the 
residential registration system. The system forcefully classifies people into 
rural and non-rural populations, creating an unreasonable separation and 
opposition within the country. Peasants have no medical insurance, no 
unemployment welfare, no retirement pensions and cannot take loans from banks. 
Peasants are the most impoverished class in China, but also the class carrying 
the heaviest tax burden. Peasants need to pay a mandatory provident fund, public 
welfare fund, administrative management fund, extra education fee, birth control 
fee, militia organization and training fee, country road construction fee and 
military service compensation fee. Besides all these fees, they also have to 
sell part of the grains they produce at a flat rate to the state as a mandatory 
requirement, and pay agriculture tax, land tax, special local produce tax, and 
butchery tax in addition to numerous other levies. In contrast, the non-rural 
population does not pay these fees and taxes. 
In the beginning of 2004, China’s Premier Wen Jiabao issued a “No. 1 Document,” 
stating that rural China was facing the most difficult time since the economic 
reform in 1978. Income for most peasants had stagnated or even declined. They 
had become poorer, and the income gap between urban and rural residents 
continued to widen. 
In a tree farm in eastern Sichuan province, upper level authorites distributed 
500,000 yuan (approximately US$ 60,500) for a reforestation project. The leaders 
at the tree farm first put 200,000 yuan in their own pocket, and then allocated 
the remaining 300,000 yuan to tree planting. But as the money was taken away 
when passing through each level of the government, very little was left in the 
end for local peasants who did the actual tree planting. The government did not 
need to worry that the peasants would refuse to work on the project because of 
inadequate funding. The peasants were so impoverished that they would work for 
very little money. For this same reason products made in China are so cheap. 
Using Economic Interests to Pressure Western Countries 
Many people believe that trade with China will promote human rights, freedom of 
speech and democratic reform in China. After more than 20 years, it is clear 
that this assumption is only wishful thinking. A comparison of the principles 
for doing business in China and the West provides a common example. The fairness 
and transparency of Western societies are replaced by personal relations, 
bribery and embezzlement in China. Many Western corporations have become 
culpable by further exacerbating China’s corruption; some companies even help 
the CCP hide its human rights violations and persecution of its own people. 
The CCP typically behaves like a scoundrel by playing the economic card in 
foreign diplomacy. Whether China’s aircraft manufacturing contract is given to 
France or the U.S. depends on which country keeps quiet on CCP’s human rights 
issues. Many Western businessmen and politicians are driven and controlled by 
economic profits from China. Some Information technology companies from North 
America have supplied specialized products to the CCP for blocking the internet. 
Some Internet websites have, in order to gain entry to the Chinese market, 
agreed to censor themselves so as to filter out information disliked by the CCP. 

According to data from China’s Ministry of Commerce, by the end of April 2004, 
China has seen a total US$ 990 billion of foreign investment in various 
contracts. The “huge blood transfusion” to the CCP’s economy from foreign 
capital is apparent. But in the process of investment, foreign capital did not 
bring the concept of democracy, freedom and human rights to the Chinese people. 
The CCP capitalizes in its propaganda on the unconditional cooperation by 
foreign investors and foreign governments and the flattery of some countries. By 
making use of China’s superficial economic prosperity, the CCP officials have 
become extremely adept at colluding with businesses to divide state wealth and 
block political reforms. 
******************
III. The CCP’s Brainwashing Techniques: From “Brazen” to “Delicate” 
People are often heard to say, “I know the CCP lied too often in the past, but 
this time it is telling the truth.” Ironically, in retrospect, this is what 
people would say each time after the CCP made a grave mistake in the past. This 
reflects the ability the CCP has acquired over the decades to use lies to fool 
its people. 
People have developed some resistance to the CCP’s tall tales; in response, the 
CCP’s fabrication and propaganda have become more “delicate” and “professional.” 
Evolving from the slogan-style propaganda of the past, the CCP’s lies have 
become more “gradual” and “subtle.” Particularly under the conditions of the 
information blockade the CCP has erected around China, it makes up stories based 
on partial facts to mislead the public, which is even more detrimental and 
deceptive than tall tales. 
Chinascope, an English language journal, carried an article in October, 2004 
that analyzes cases whereby the CCP uses more “delicate” means to fabricate lies 
in order to cover up the truth. When SARS broke out in mainland China in 2003, 
the outside world suspected that China had hidden information about the 
epidemic, and yet the CCP repeatedly refused to acknowledge it. To find out if 
the CCP had been truthful about its report on SARS, the author of the article 
read all 400-plus reports on SARS from the beginning to April 2003 on the Xinhua 
website. These reports told the following story: As soon as SARS appeared, 
governments at central and local levels had mobilized experts to give timely 
treatment to the patients who later were discharged from hospitals upon 
recovery; in response to trouble-makers’ incitement of rushed shopping for 
stock-up in order to avoid having to go out when the disease is widespread, the 
government had wasted no time to stop rumors and taken steps to prevent their 
spread, so the social order had been effectively ensured; although a very small 
number of anti-China forces groundlessly suspected a cover-up by the Chinese 
government, most countries and people did not believe these rumors; the upcoming 
Guangzhou Trade Fair would have the largest participation ever from businesses 
around the world; tourists from overseas confirmed that it was safe to travel in 
China; experts from the World Health Organization, in particular, stated in 
public that the Chinese government had been forthcoming in cooperating and 
taking appropriate measures in dealing with SARS, so that there should be no 
problems; and specialists had given the go-ahead [after over 20 days delay] to 
Guangdong province for field inspection. These 400-plus articles gave the public 
including the author an impression that the CCP had been quite transparent 
during these four months and responsible to the people’s health, and made the 
people disbelieve that the CCP could have hidden anything. However, on April 20, 
2003, the Information Office of the State Council announced in its press 
conference that SARS had indeed broken out in China and thus indirectly admitted 
that the government had been covering up the epidemics. Only then did this 
author see the truth and understand the brazen and deceptive methods employed by 
the CCP. 
On the general election in Taiwan, the CCP, using the same “gradual” and 
“patiently guiding” approach, suggests to people that a presidential election 
would lead to disasters: a surge in the suicide rate, a collapse in the stock 
markets, an increase in “weird diseases,” mental disorders, out-migration of the 
island inhabitants, family feuds, a callous attitude towards life, a depressed 
market, indiscriminate shooting, protests and demonstrations, a siege on the 
presidential building, social unrest, political farce, and so on. The CCP filled 
the heads of the people in mainland China with these ideas on a daily basis in 
an attempt to let the people conclude for themselves: “all of these are the 
disastrous results of an election” and “we should never ever hold a democratic 
election.” 
On the issue of Falun Gong, the CCP has displayed an even higher level of skill 
with deceptions meant to frame Falun Gong. The CCP’s staged shows have been so 
vivid and kept coming one after another. No wonder so many Chinese have been 
fooled. The CCP’s craftiness has been so deceptive that the victims of its 
deception willingly believe in the CCP’s lies and think that they have the 
truth. 
The CCP’s cheating ability in its brainwashing propaganda over the past decades 
has become more “delicate” and “subtle,” which is a natural extension of its 
deceptive and shameless nature. 
******************
IV. The CCP’s Hypocrisy in Human Rights 
>From Seeking Democracy for the Sake of Power to Dictatorial Rule and Hypocrisy 
in Human Rights 
“In a democratic nation, sovereignty should lie in the hands of the people, 
which is in line with the principles of heaven and earth. If a nation claims to 
be democratic and yet sovereignty does not rest with its people, that is 
definitely not on the right track and can only be regarded as a deviation, and 
this nation is not a democratic nation… how could democracy be possible without 
ending the Party rule and without a popular election? Return people’s rights to 
people! ” 
You may take the above as a quotation from an article written by enemies 
overseas slamming the CCP; but you are wrong. The above statement is taken from 
an article run by Xinhua Daily, a CCP newspaper, on September 27, 1945. 
The CCP that had trumpeted “popular election” and demanded “returning people’s 
rights to people” has been treating “popular suffrage” as taboo since it usurped 
power. The people who are supposed to be “the masters and owners of the state” 
have no rights whatsoever to make their own decisions. No words, not even 
“roguish,” would be sufficient to describe the CCP’s nature and what the CCP has 
done to its people. 
If you fancy that what’s gone is gone and the evil cult of the CCP that has 
flourished on killing and ruled the nation with lies will now start reforming 
itself and becoming benevolent and be truly willing to “return people’s rights 
to people,” you are wrong again. Let us hear what People’s Daily, the CCP’s 
mouthpiece, has to say on November 23rd, 2004, 60 years after the above public 
statement: “A steadfast control of ideology is the essential ideological and 
political foundation for consolidating the Party’s rule.” 
Recently, the CCP proposed a so-called new “Three No Principle,” [6] the first 
of which is “Development with no debates.” The CCP’s real purpose is not 
“development” but to emphasize “no debates,” establishing “one voice, one hall.” 

When asked by the renowned CBS correspondent Mike Wallace in 2000 why China has 
not conducted popular elections, Jiang Zemin responded, “The Chinese people are 
way too low in education.” 
However, as early as February 25, 1939, the CCP cried out in its Xinhua Daily, 
“They (the Kuomintang) think that democratic politics in China are not to be 
realized today, but some years later. They hope that democratic politics should 
wait until the knowledge and education levels of the Chinese people reach those 
of bourgeois democratic countries in Europe and America…… but, only under the 
democratic system will it become easier to educate and train the people.” 
And the hypocritical difference between what Xinhua said in 1939 and what Jiang 
Zemin said in 2000 reflects the true picture of the CCP’s roguish nature. 
After the Tiananmen Massacre in 1989, the CCP reentered the world stage carrying 
a miserable human rights record. History gave the CCP a chance to choose: Either 
it should learn to respect its people and truly improve human rights; or it 
could continue to abuse human rights inside China while pretending to the 
outside world to respect human rights in order to evade international 
condemnation. 
Unfortunately, the CCP, consistent with its hypocritical nature, chose the 
second path without hesitation. It sustained and gathered together a large 
number of dishonest talents in scientific and religious fields who are 
specifically assigned to put up deceptive propaganda overseas and trumpet the 
CCP’s progress in human rights. It concocted a range of unjustifiable rights 
fallacies such as “the survival right,” or rights to shelter and food. (When 
people are hungry, do they not have the right to speak? Even if the hungry 
cannot speak, would it be allowed for those who have eaten their fill to speak 
for the hungry?) It even tried to deceive the Chinese people and western 
democracies by repeatedly manipulating the game of human rights and had the 
audacity to say “the present is the best period for China’s human rights”. 
Article 35 of China’s Constitution stipulates that citizens of the People’s 
Republic of China have the freedoms of expression, publication, assembly, 
association, protest, and demonstration. The CCP is simply playing a word game. 
Tens of millions of Falun Gong practitioners have been deprived of their rights 
of conscience, speech, publication, and assembly. They do not have the right to 
defend themselves, and even their appeal to higher authorities is considered 
illegal. On more than one occasion, some civilian groups have applied to 
demonstrate in Beijing. The government, instead of giving its approval, arrested 
the applicants. The “one state, two systems” policy for Hong Kong affirmed by 
CCP’s constitution is also a trap set up by the communist rulers for the British 
government and the people in Hong Kong. The CCP talks about no change in Hong 
Kong for 50 years, and yet it has tried to change the two systems into one by 
attempting to pass tyrannical legislation, Basic Law Article 23, within just 
five years. [7] 
The new sinister ploy employed by the CCP is to use the fake “relaxation in 
speech” to cover up the nature of its monitoring and control. The Chinese now 
appear to speak their minds more freely and, besides, the internet has made news 
travel faster. So the CCP openly claims that it now allows freedom of speech, 
and quite a number of people think so too. But this is all untrue. It is not 
that the CCP has become benevolent, rather, the Party could not stop social 
development and technological advance. Let us look at the role the CCP is 
playing regarding the internet: It is blocking websites, filtering information, 
monitoring chat rooms, controlling emails, and incriminating net users. 
Everything it is doing is regressive in nature. Today, with the help of some 
capitalists who disregard human rights and conscience, the CCP’s police have 
been equipped with the high-tech devices by which they are able to monitor every 
move the net users make inside a patrol car. When we look at the indecency of 
the CCP—its conduct of evils deeds in broad daylight—in the context of the 
global movement toward democratic freedom, how can we expect it to make any 
progress in human rights? The CCP itself said it all: “It loosens up to the 
outside but tightens up internally.” The CCP’s immoral nature has never changed. 

To create a good image for itself at the UN Commission on Human Rights, in 2004 
the CCP staged an array of events to severely punish the abuse of human rights. 
These events, however, are for foreigners’ eyes only and have no substance. That 
is because in China the biggest human rights abuser is the CCP itself as well as 
its former General Secretary Jiang Zemin, former secretary of the Political and 
Judiciary Commission Luo Gan, the minister Zhou Yongkang, and the deputy 
minister Liu Jing of the Ministry of Public Security. Relying upon these people 
to punish human rights abuse is like asking robbers to capture thieves. 
An analogy could be made to a serial rapist who, when hidden from public view, 
used to assault ten girls in a day. Then, there are too many people around, so 
he can assault only one girl in front of the crowd. Can the rapist be said to 
have changed for the better? His going from assaults behind the scenes to raping 
in public only proves that the rapist is even more base and shameless than 
before. The nature of the serial rapist has not changed at all; what has changed 
is that it is no longer as easy for him to commit the crime. 
The CCP is just like this serial rapist. The CCP’s dictatorial nature and its 
instinctive fear of losing power determine that it will not respect people’s 
rights. The human, material, and financial resources used to beautify its human 
rights record have far exceeded its efforts in the true improvement of human 
rights. The plaguing of China by the communist rogues has been the biggest 
misfortune for the Chinese people. 
Dress Up to Commit Scoundrel Deeds Using the Law As a Disguise 
To protect the gains of special-interest groups, the CCP has on the one hand 
torn up their previous façade and completely abandoned the workers, peasants, 
and the populace, and on the other hand with time advanced their deceitful and 
scoundrel means as more and more human rights abuses of the CCP are exposed to 
the international community. The CCP has used popular vocabulary such as “the 
rule of law,” “market,” “for the people,” and “reform” to confuse people’s 
minds. The CCP did not change its evil scoundrel nature even if it dresses 
itself up in a “Western-style suit.” It is just more misleading and deceiving 
than the CCP “in a Mao suit.” In George Orwell’s Animal Farm (1945), the pigs 
learned to stand and walk on two legs. The newly acquired skill gave the pigs a 
new image, but did not change their pig nature. 
A. Making Laws and Regulations in Violation of the Chinese Constitution 
These unconstitutional laws and regulations are passed on to law enforcement 
personnel at various levels as “the legal basis.” The goal is to assail the 
people’s efforts to fight against persecution, gain freedom, and uphold human 
rights. 
B. Non-political Problems Are Handled with Political Means 
An ordinary social problem would be elevated to the height of “competing with 
the Party for the masses,” “bringing demise to the Party and the country,” 
“insurgence,” and “enemy forces.” A non-political issue would intentionally be 
politicized, so that the CCP could use political movements as a propaganda tool 
to incite people’s hatred. 
C. Political Problems Are Handled with Non-political Means 
The CCP’s latest ploy to attack pro-democratic personnel and 
independent-thinking intellectuals is to set up “traps” in order to imprison 
them. Such “traps” include false accusations of civil offenses such as 
prostitution and tax evasion. This is done with a low profile to avoid 
condemnation by outside groups. These crimes, which are enough to ruin the 
reputations of the accused, are also used to humiliate the victims in public. 
The only change to the CCP’s scoundrel nature, if any, is that it has become 
even more disgraceful and inhuman. 
The Hostage Culture of Scoundrels—Holding Over One Billion People as Hostage 
Imagine that a licentious criminal broke into a home and raped a girl. At the 
trial, this criminal defended himself by arguing that he did not kill the victim 
since he was busy raping her. Because killing is worse than raping and since he 
did not kill the victim, he is not only innocent but should also be released 
immediately. People should also praise him for only raping but not killing. 
This logic sounds ridiculous. However, at this very time, the CCP’s logic in 
defense of its Tiananmen Massacre on June 4th in, 1989 is exactly the same as 
that of the above criminal. The CCP has argued that the “suppression of 
students” avoided a potential “internal disorder” in China. As a way to prevent 
an “internal disorder,” the “suppression of students” was thus justified. 
What does it mean when a criminal questions the judge in court, “Raping or 
killing, which one is better”? It can only indicate how shameless the criminal 
is. Similarly, in the issue of the Tiananmen Massacre, the CCP and its cohorts 
did not reflect on whether it is guilty of killing. Instead, they asked the 
international society which one is better: “Suppression of students or internal 
disorder that may lead to civil war?” 
The CCP is in control of the entire state machine and all means of propaganda. 
In other words, the 1.3 billion Chinese people are held hostage by the CCP. With 
the 1.3 billion hostages in hand, the CCP could always argue with its “hostage 
theory” that if it does not suppress a certain group of people, the whole nation 
will be in turmoil or disaster. Using this as an excuse, the CCP could suppress 
any individual or group at will, and its suppression could always be justified. 
Given such deceitful arguments and fallacious reasoning, is there any worse 
scoundrel more shameless in the world than the CCP? 
Carrots Plus Stick—from Bestowing “Freedom” to Escalating Suppression 
Many Chinese people feel that they enjoy more “freedom” now than before, so they 
hold out a hope for the prospect of the CCP’s improvement. As a matter of fact, 
the degree of freedom people are “bestowed” depends highly on the CCP’s sense of 
crisis. The CCP would do anything to maintain the collective interests of the 
Party, including giving so-called democracy, freedom or human rights to the 
people. 
However, under the CCP’s leadership, the so-called “freedom” bestowed by the CCP 
was not protected by any legislation. Such “freedom” is purely a tool to benumb 
and control people in the guise of following the international trend toward 
democracy. In essence, this “freedom” is in an irreconcilable conflict with the 
CCP’s interest in dictatorship. Once such a conflict is so activated as to be 
beyond the CCP’s tolerance level, the CCP could take back all the “freedom” 
instantly. In the history of the CCP, there were several periods during which 
speech was relatively free, with each followed by a strictly controlled period. 
Such cyclic patterns course throughout the history of the CCP, demonstrating the 
CCP’s scoundrel nature. 
In today’s Internet era, if you visit the CCP’s official Xinhua website or the 
People’s Daily online, you will find that indeed quite a few reports there 
contain negative information about China. This is because, first, there is too 
much bad news in rapid circulation in China these days, and the news agency has 
to report these stories in order to stay credible. Second, the standpoint of 
such reports coincides with the CCP’s interest, i.e., “minor criticism offers 
great help.” The reports would always attribute the cause of bad news to certain 
individuals, having nothing to do with the Party, while crediting the CCP’s 
leadership for any solution. The CCP controls skillfully what to report or not, 
how much to report, and whether to have Chinese media or the CCP-controlled 
overseas media report it. The CCP is a proficient at manipulating bad news into 
something that can achieve the desired result of winning people’s hearts. Many 
youth in mainland China feel that the CCP now offers a good degree of freedom of 
speech, and thus have hopes for and are appreciative of the CCP. They are 
victims of the “refined” strategies of the scoundrel media. Moreover, by 
creating a chaotic situation in the Chinese society and then giving it some 
media exposure, the CCP could threaten people that only the CCP’s power could 
control such a chaotic society and force people to endorse the CCP’s rule. 
Therefore, we should not mistakenly think the CCP has changed by itself even if 
we see some benign intention by the CCP of improving human rights. In history 
when the CCP struggled to overthrow KMT’s government, it pretended to be 
fighting for democracy for the nation. The CCP’s scoundrel nature determines 
that any promise by the CCP is not reliable. 
******************
V. Various Aspects of the CCP’s Scoundrel Nature 
Selling out the Nation’s Land out of Vanity—Using The Name of National Unity to 
Betray the Country 
“We must liberate Taiwan” and “Unify Taiwan” have been the CCP’s propaganda 
slogans over the past few decades. By means of this propaganda, the CCP acted 
like a nationalist and patriot. Does the CCP truly care about the integrity of 
the nation’s territory? Not at all! Taiwan was merely an historic problem caused 
by the struggle between the CCP and KMT, and it was a means that the CCP used to 
strike at its opponent and win people’s support. 
In the early days when the CCP set up the “Chinese Soviet” during the 
Nationalist reign, the Clause 14 of its Constitution stated that “any ethnic 
groups or any provinces inside China can claim independence.” In order to comply 
with the Soviet Union, the CCP’s slogan back then was “To protect the Soviet.” 
During the Sino-Japanese War, the supreme goal of the CCP was to take the 
opportunity to increase itself rather than fight against Japanese intruders. In 
1945 the Soviet Red Army entered Northeast China and committed robbery, murder, 
and rape, but the CCP did not utter a word of disapproval. Similarly, when the 
Soviet Union supported Outer Mongolia to become independent from China, the CCP 
was once again silent. 
At the end of 1999, the CCP and Russia signed the China-Russia Boarder Survey 
Agreement, in which the CCP accepted all the unequal agreements between the Qing 
Dynasty and Russia made more than 100 years ago, selling out over one million 
square kilometers of land to Russia, an area as large as several dozen Taiwans. 
In 2004, the CCP and Russia signed a China-Russia Eastern Border Supplemental 
Agreement and reportedly lost sovereignty of half of the Heixiazi Island in 
Heilongjiang province to Russia again. 
Regarding other border issues such as the Nansha Islands and Diaoyu Island, the 
CCP does not care at all since these issues do not impact the CCP’s power. The 
CCP has made a fanfare of “Unifying Taiwan,” which was merely a smoke screen and 
scoundrel means for overcoming domestic conflict in the name of nationalism. 
The Political Thugs without Morality 
A government should always be monitored. In democratic countries, the separation 
of powers plus the freedoms of speech and the press are good mechanisms for 
surveillance. Religious belief provides the self-restraint of morality. 
The CCP promotes atheism; hence, there is no divine nature to restrain morally 
its behavior. The CCP runs on dictatorship, hence there is no law to restrain it 
politically. As a result, the CCP is totally reckless and unrestrained when it 
plays out its indecency and scoundrel-nature. How does the CCP speak to the 
people regarding the issue of who will monitor it? “Self restraint!” This is the 
slogan the CCP has used to deceive the people for decades. From the “Self 
Criticism” in earlier times to “self surveillance,” “self-perfecting the Party’s 
leadership,” to the recent “self-enhancing the Party’s governing capacity.” The 
CCP emphasizes the super power that it has for so-called “self improvement.” The 
CCP does not just say it but actually takes action, establishing “The Central 
Disciplinary Inspection Committee” and “the Office for Appeals” and the like. 
These organizations are merely “flower vases” that confuse and mislead. 
Without moral and legal restraint, the CCP’s “self-improvment” is equal to the 
traditional Chinese saying of “demons emerging from one’s own heart.” It is only 
the excuse the CCP uses to refuse external surveillance and refuse to lift a ban 
on a free press and the forming of free political parties. Political thugs use 
this delusion to fool the people and to protect the CCP’s legitimacy and the 
interests of the ruling group. 
The CCP is expert at playing the political thug. “The People’s Democratic 
Dictatorship,” “Democratic Centralism,” “Political Consultation” and so on are 
all deceptive means. Except for the “Dictatorship,” they are all lies. 
Employ Conspiracy to Forge Images of Being Anti-Japanese and Anti-Terrorist 
The CCP has always claimed to have led the Chinese people in defeating the 
Japanese invaders. But abundant historical archives expose that the CCP 
intentionally avoided battles in the Sino-Japanese War. To the contrary, the CCP 
only hampered the anti-Japanese effort by taking the opportunity of the KMT’s 
involvement in the war to increase its own power. 
The only major battles the CCP fought were the “Pingxing Pass Battle” and the 
“Hundred Regiment Battle,” both of which took place in northern China. In the 
first battle, the CCP offered not at all the leadership and main force it has 
claimed; the CCP troops merely ambushed the Japanese supplementary army. As for 
the second battle, the inner CCP circle believed that participating in it 
violated its own strategic policies. After these two battles, Mao and his CCP 
armies did not engage in any serious battles, nor did they produce any 
Sino-Japanese War heroes like Dong Cunrui during the war with the KMT in 1948 
and Huang Jiguang during the Korean-American war.[8] Only a small number of 
high-level military commanders of the CCP died on the anti-Japanese 
battleground. Until today, the CCP cannot even publish a figure for its 
casualties during the Sino-Japanese War, nor can one find many memorials in 
China’s vast territory for heroes in the Sino-Japanese War. 
At the time the CCP established a “Border Region Government” in Shaanxi, Gansu, 
and Ningxia provinces away from the battlefront. Using today’s nomenclature, the 
CCP was conducting “one country two systems,” or “two Chinas” inside China. 
Although the CCP’s commanders did not lack passion in resisting the Japanese, 
the CCP’s high-level officials were not sincere in fighting the Sino-Japanese 
War, but instead took measures to protect their energy and use the war as an 
opportunity to develop themselves. When China and Japan resumed diplomatic 
relations in 1972, Mao Zedong let slip the truth to the Japanese Prime Minister 
Kakuei Tanaka that the CCP had to thank Japan, since without the Sino-Japanese 
War the CCP would not have gained power in China. 
The CCP claimed to have led the Chinese people to sustain for eight years and 
ultimately win the Sino-Japanese War. The claim could not be farther from the 
truth. 
More than half a century later, with the 911 terrorist attacks on US soil, an 
anti-terrorist effort has become a global focus. The CCP again uses deceptive 
strategies similar to what was deployed during the Sino-Japanese War. Using 
anti-terrorism as a disguise, the CCP has suppressed many religious believers, 
people with different opinions, local organizations, and ethnic minority groups, 
labeling them terrorists. In the international anti-terrorist climate, the CCP 
has launched violent persecutions. 
On September 27, 2004, the Xinhua News Agency quoted the Xinjing Newspaper that 
Beijing may establish the first anti-terrorist bureau among all the provinces 
and cities in China. Many overseas pro-CCP media highlighted China’s 610 Office, 
a network of government agencies set up especially to persecute Falun Gong 
practitioners, as an anti-terrorist organization, and claimed that the 
anti-terrorist bureau would focus on attacking terrorist organizations including 
Falun Gong. 
The CCP slaps the label “terrorists” on Falun Gong practitioners who hold no 
weapons in their hands, do not fight back when beaten or insulted, and who 
peacefully appeal against the wrongdoings of the CCP government. For this 
defenseless group of kind people, the CCP has mobilized its well-equipped 
“special anti-terrorist force” to conduct swift persecution. Furthermore, the 
CCP has used the name of anti-terrorism to evade international attention and 
condemnation. The kinds of deception used here are no different from the ones 
used by the CCP during the Sino-Japanese War. The CCP’s misuse of anti-terrorism 
has given this important international operation a bad name. 
Overtly Agree but Covertly Oppose, Sincerely Pretending 
The CCP does not believe its doctrines but forces others to believe in them. 
This is one of the most insidious methods used by the evil cult of the CCP. The 
CCP knows that its doctrines are false, and that the bankrupt idea of socialism 
is untrue. The CCP doesn’t believe in these doctrines, but forces people to 
believe in them; if you do not believe in them, you are persecuted. Most 
absurdly and shamefully the CCP has written such deceitful ideology into the 
Constitution as the foundation of the state. 
In real life, there is an interesting phenomenon. Many high-level officials lose 
their positions in power struggles in China’s political arena because of 
corruption. But these are the very people who promote honesty and selflessness 
in public meetings, while engaging in bribery, corruption, and other decadent 
activities behind the scenes. Many so-called “people’s servants” have fallen 
this way, including the former governor of Yunnan province Li Jiating, the Party 
secretary of Guizhou province Liu Fangren, the Party secretary of Hebei province 
Cheng Weigao, Minister of Land and Resources Tian Fengshan, and the lieutenant 
governor of Anhui province Wang Huaizhong. But if you examine their speeches, 
you will find that without exception, they have supported anti-corruption 
campaigns and repeatedly urged their subordinates to conduct themselves 
honestly, even as they themselves were embezzling funds and taking bribes. 
The CCP has promoted many examples and often attracted some idealistic and 
ambitious people to join the Party for decorating the Party. On the surface, the 
CCP has made itself attractive. But the world can see to what a pitiful degree 
China’s moral standard is declining. Why hasn’t the CCP’s propaganda of 
“spiritual civilization” worked to correct this? 
As a matter of fact, the Communist Party leaders transmitted mere lies when they 
promulgated “Communist moral quality” or “Serve the people.” The inconsistency 
between Communist leaders’ actions and words can be traced all the way back to 
their founding father Karl Marx. Marx bore an illegitimate son; Lenin contracted 
syphilis from prostitutes; Stalin was sued for forcing a sexual relationship 
with a singer; Mao Zedong indulged himself in lust; Jiang Zemin is promiscuous; 
the Romanian Communist leader Ceausescu’s entire family became filthy rich 
because of him; the Cuban Communist leader Castro hoards hundreds of millions of 
dollars in overseas banks; and North Korea’s demonic killer Kim Il Song and his 
children lead a decadent and wasteful life. 
In daily life, ordinary people in China loathe the empty political study 
sessions. Increasingly, they equivocate in political matters, since everyone 
knows them to be deceptive games. But no one, neither the speakers nor the 
listeners at these political meetings, would speak openly about such 
deception—it is an open secret. People call this phenomenon “sincere 
pretension.” The CCP’s high tunes, either the “Three Represents” several years 
ago, or “improving governing capacity” later, or today’s “three 
hearts”—“warming, stabilizing and gaining people’s hearts”—have all been 
nonsense. Which ruling party would not represent the people’s benefits? Which 
ruling party would not care about governing capacity? Which ruling party is not 
about gaining people’s hearts? Any parties that do not concern themselves with 
these issues would soon be removed from the political stage. But the CCP would 
treat such superfluous slogans as intricate, deep theories and stir up the whole 
country to study them. 
When pretending has been gradually molded into a billion people’s habits and the 
Party’s culture, the society becomes filled with falsity, grandiosity, and 
inanity. Lacking honesty and trust, the society is in a state of crisis. Why has 
the CCP acted as such? In the past, it was for its ideologies, and now it is for 
its benefits. The CCP members know themselves to be pretending, but they pretend 
anyway. If the CCP did not promote such slogans and formalities, it wouldn’t 
have an opportunity to act like a scoundrel or a bully. If that’s the case, how 
could it make itself followed and feared by the people? 
Abandon Conscience and Sacrifice Justice for the Party’s Interests 
In the book “On the Communist Party’s Moral Development,” Liu Shaoqi [9] 
expounded especially on the need “for Party members to subsume their individual 
interests to the Party’s interest.” Among CCP members, there has never been a 
lack of righteous people who are concerned about the country and its people, nor 
has there been a shortage of honest officials who have truly served the people. 
But in the CCP’s machinery of self-interest, these officials cannot survive. 
Under constant pressure to “submit oneself to the Party,” they often find it 
impossible to continue, or risk being removed from positions, or worse, become 
forced to join the ranks of the corrupted. 
Chinese people have personally experienced and deeply understood the CCP’s 
brutal regime and have developed a profound fear of the CCP’s violence. 
Therefore, people dare not uphold justice and no longer believe in the heavenly 
laws. First they submit themselves to the CCP’s power. Gradually they become 
unfeeling and unconcerned about matters not affecting themselves. Even the logic 
of their thinking has been consciously molded to succumb to the CCP’s might. 
This is the CCP’s nature at work, to behave like a gangster and a scoundrel. 
Patriotism as a Nationwide Urgent Mobilization 
The CCP’s slogans of “patriotism” and “nationalism” are the sugar-coating to 
seduce people. They are not only the CCP’s main banners, but also its frequently 
issued orders and time-tested strategies. Overseas Chinese, who, for decades 
dare not return to China to live, may read the nationalistic propaganda in the 
overseas edition of People’s Daily and are inspired to become more patriotic 
than the Chinese living inside China. Chinese people, who dare not say “no” to 
any CCP policy, were brave enough, under the CCP’s leadership, to storm the US 
Embassy and Consulate in China, throwing eggs and rocks and burning cars and US 
flags, all under the banner of “patriotism.” 
The Communist Party has decided that whenever it encounters an important issue 
that demands obedience from the people, it will use “patriotism” and 
“nationalism” to mobilize people on short notice. For matters related to Taiwan, 
Hong Kong, Falun Gong, the collision between a US spy plane and a Chinese 
fighter jet—in all cases the CCP has used the combined method of high-pressure 
terror and collective brainwashing, thus bringing people to a war-like state of 
mind. This method is similar to that used by the German Fascists. 
By blocking all other information, the CCP’s brainwashing has been incredibly 
successful. The Chinese people, even though they do not like the CCP, think in 
the twisted mode instilled by the CCP. During the US-led Iraq war, for example, 
many people are stirred up watching the daily analysis on CCTV [10]; they feel a 
strong sense of hatred, vengeance, and desire to fight, while at the same time 
cursing another war. 
Shameless—Mixing the Concepts of the Party and the Country, Forcing People to 
Consider the Enemy as Their Father 
One of the phrases the CCP often uses to threaten people is, “the extinction of 
the Party and the country,” placing the “Party” before the “country.” The 
founding principle of China is that “there would be no new China without the 
CCP.” From childhood, people were educated to “listen to the Party” and “behave 
like good children of the Party.” They sang praises to the Party: “I consider 
the Party as my mother,” “Oh, Party, my dear mother,” “The saving grace of the 
Party is deeper than the ocean,” “Love for my father and mother can not surpass 
love for the Party.”[11] They would “go and fight wherever the Party directs 
us.” When the government offered disaster relief, people would “thank the Party 
and the government”—first the “Party” and then the “government.” A military 
slogan reads “the Party commands the gun.” Even when the Chinese experts tried 
to design the uniform for court judges, they put four golden buttons on the 
neckband of the uniform. Those buttons are lined up from top to bottom to 
symbolize the Party, the people, the law and the country. It indicates that even 
if you are the judge, the Party will forever be positioned above the “law,” 
“country,” and “people.” 
The “Party” has become a supreme name in China, and the “country” has become the 
Party’s subordinate. The “country” exists for the “Party,” and the “Party” is 
said to be the embodiment of the people and the symbol of the “country.” Love 
for the Party, Party leaders, and the country have been mixed together, which is 
the fundamental reason why patriotism in China has become twisted. 
Under the subtle but persistent influence of the CCP’s education and propaganda, 
many people, Party members or not, began to confuse the Party with the country, 
whether they are aware of it or not. They have come to accept that “the Party’s 
interest” is superior to all, and to concur that “the Party’s interests equal 
the interests of the people and the country.” This result of the CCP’s 
indoctrination has created a wide-open space for the Chinese Communist scoundrel 
group to betray the national interests. 
Play the “Redress” Game and Turn Criminal Acts into “Great Accomplishments” 
The CCP has made many blunders in history. But, it has always put the blame on 
certain individuals or groups through “redress and rehabilitation.” This has not 
only made the victims deeply grateful for the CCP, but also allowed the CCP to 
completely deny any criminal deeds. The CCP claims itself to be “not only 
unafraid of making mistakes, but also good at correcting them,” [12] and this 
has become the CCP’s magical potion with which repeatedly to escape elimination. 
Thus, the CCP remains forever “great, glorious, and correct.” 
Perhaps one day, the CCP will decide to redress the Tiananmen Square Massacre 
and restore the reputation of Falun Gong. But these are simply the roguish 
tactics that the CCP uses in a desperate attempt to prolong its dying life. The 
CCP will never have the courage to reflect on itself, to expose its own crimes 
and to pay for its own sins. 
******************
VI. Thorough Exposure of Scoundrel Behaviors: Attempting to Eliminate 
“Truthfulness, Compassion, Tolerance” through State Terror 
The fraudulent “Tiananmen self-immolation” staged by the CCP evil cult may be 
rated as the CCP’s lie of the century. In order to suppress Falun Gong, a 
government can be so perverse as to have seduced five people to pretend to be 
Falun Gong practitioners and choreographed their fake self-immolation in 
Tiananmen Square. Unbeknownst to them, these five people signed their own death 
warrant, either beaten to death on the scene or killed afterwards. The slow 
motion of the self-immolation video recorded by CCTV unmistakably shows that Liu 
Chunling, one of the self-immolators, died after being hit on the spot by a 
police officer. Other flaws in the footage included the sitting posture of Wang 
Jingdong, the intact plastic bottle between his knees after the fire was put 
out, the conversation between a doctor and the youngest victim Liu Siying, and 
the way cameramen arrived to videotape the scene. The evidence is sufficient to 
prove that the self-immolation incident was a deception maliciously designed by 
the Jiang Zemin scoundrel regime in order to frame Falun Gong. [13] 
A political party would use such evil and cruel methods, using the nation’s 
financial resources accumulated in the past 20 years of economic reform, 
mobilizing the Party, the government, the military, the police, spies, foreign 
diplomats and various other government and non-government organizations, 
manipulating the system of global media coverage, implementing a strict 
information blockade with individual and high-tech monitoring, all to persecute 
a peaceful group of Falun Gong practitioners. 
No scoundrel in history has lied so insidiously, so completely and as 
pervasively as Jiang Zemin and the CCP. They use various lies, each targeting 
and manipulating different notions and ideas that people hold. This way, people 
can more easily believe the CCP’s lies, and the Party can incite hatred toward 
Falun Gong. Do you believe in science? The CCP says that Falun Gong is 
superstitious. Do you find politics distasteful? The CCP says that Falun Gong 
engages in politics. Do you envy the rich? The CCP says that Falun Gong gathers 
wealth. Do you object to organizations? The CCP says that Falun Gong has a tight 
organization. Are you tired of the cult of personality that lasted in China for 
several decades? The CCP says that Falun Gong exercises mental control. Are you 
patriotic? The CCP says Falun Gong is anti-China. Are you afraid of chaos? The 
CCP says Falun Gong disrupts stability. Do you believe that Falun Gong upholds 
Truthfulness, Compassion, and Tolerance? The CCP says Falun Gong is not 
truthful, compassionate, or tolerant, and that compassion can generate the 
desire to kill. 
Do you trust that the government would not make up such lies? The CCP makes up 
lies that are bigger and more shocking, from suicides to self-immolation, from 
killing relatives to murdering others, from killing one to slaughtering many—so 
many lies that you find it hard not to believe them. Do you sympathize with 
Falun Gong? The CCP connects your political evaluation with the persecution of 
Falun Gong, and demotes you, fires you, or takes away your bonus if Falun Gong 
practitioners from your responsible area appeal in Beijing. You are forced to 
become an enemy of Falun Gong. The CCP has kidnapped countless Falun Gong 
practitioners and taken them to brainwashing sessions in an effort to force them 
to give up their righteous belief and promise to stop their practice. The CCP 
has used various evil reasons to persuade them, using their relatives, career, 
and education to pressure them, inflicting them with various cruel tortures and 
even punishing their family members and colleagues. Falun Gong practitioners who 
are successfully brainwashed are used to brainwash others. The vicious CCP 
insists on turning humans into demons and forcing them to walk on a dark path to 
the end. 
******************
VII. Scoundrel Socialism with “Chinese Characteristics” 
The term “Chinese characteristics” is used to cover up the CCP’s shame. The CCP 
claims all along that it owes its success in China’s revolution to “the 
integration of Marxism-Leninism with the concrete reality of Chinese 
revolution.” The CCP has frequently used and misused the term “characteristic” 
as an ideological support for its capricious and roguish policies. 
Capriciousness and Deceptive Means 
Under the roguish façade of the “Chinese characteristics,” the only things the 
CCP has accomplished are nonsense and absurdity. 
The goal of the CCP’s revolution was to realize public ownership of the means of 
production, and it has deceived many young people into joining the Party 
organization for the ideals of communism and unity; many of them betrayed their 
property-owning families. But 83 years after the beginning of the CCP, 
capitalism has returned, only now becoming a part of the CCP itself. Today, 
among CCP leaders’ children and relatives, many are new capitalists with 
fortunes; many Party members have endeavored to join this group of nouveau 
riche. The CCP eliminated the landlords and capitalists in the name of 
revolution and stole their property. Now, the CCP’s new “royalty” has become 
even richer capitalists through embezzlement and corruption. Those who followed 
the Party in the early revolutions now sigh, “If I knew the situation today, I 
would not have followed it then.” After several decades of sweat and struggle, 
they find themselves to have simply devoted their brothers’ and fathers’ 
properties as well as their own lives to the CCP evil cult. 
The CCP speaks of the economic base determining the superstructure [14]; in 
reality, it is the CCP’s corrupt officials’ bureaucratic economic base that 
decides the superstructure relying on high pressures to maintain. Suppressing 
the people has therefore become the CCP’s basic policy. 
Another scoundrel characteristic of the CCP is manifest in changing the 
definition of any cultural concepts, and then using its own mutated definitions 
to criticize and control people. The concept of “party” is one such example. 
Since the beginning of time and all over the world, parties have been 
established. Only the Communist Party exercises power beyond the domain of a 
party collective. If you join the Party, it will control all aspects of your 
life, including your conscience, subsistence, and private life. When given 
political authority, the CCP controls the society, government, and the state 
apparatus. It dictates all matters, from ones as important as who should be the 
Chairman of the country or the Minister of Defense, or what regulations and 
rules will be made, to as small as where one should live, with whom one can 
marry, and how many children one can bear. The CCP has mustered all imaginable 
methods of control. 
The CCP uses the name of dialectics to completely destroy the holistic thinking, 
reasoning faculty, and inquiring spirit of philosophy. While the CCP speaks 
about “distribution according to contribution,” the process of “allowing some 
people to get rich first” has been accomplished along with “distribution 
according to power.” The CCP uses the disguise of “serving the people 
whole-heartedly” to deceive those who hold these ideals, then completely 
brainwashes and controls them, gradually changing them into docile tools who 
“serve the Party whole-heartedly” and who dare not speak up for the people. 
Party of Scoundrels with “Chinese Characteristics” 
Using a principle that values the Party’s interests beyond all other 
considerations, the CCP has distorted the Chinese society with the means of an 
evil cult, creating a true deviated being in the human society. This being is 
different from any other state, government or organization. Its principle is to 
have no principle; it has no sincerity behind its smiles. However, kindhearted 
people cannot understand the CCP. Based on universal moral standards, they 
cannot imagine that such a roguish entity would be representing a country. Using 
the excuse of the “Chinese characteristic,” the CCP established itself among the 
nations of the world. The “Chinese characteristics” have become an abbreviation 
of “CCP’s scoundrel characteristics.” 
With the “Chinese characteristics,” China’s crippled capitalism was transformed 
into “socialism”; “unemployment” became “waiting for employment”; “being laid 
off” from work became “off duty”; “poverty” became the “initial stage of 
socialism”; and human rights and freedom of speech and belief are watered down 
to the right to survive. 
Scoundrelism Imposed on the Country: An Unprecedented Moral Crisis Faced by the 
Chinese Nation 
In the beginning of the 1990s, there was a popular saying in China, “I’m a 
scoundrel and I am afraid of no one.” This is the malicious consequence of 
several decades of the CCP’s roguish rule — imposing scoundrelism on the nation. 
Accompanying the fake prosperity of China’s economy is the rapidly declining 
morality in all aspects of society. 
The people’s representatives of China oftentimes talk about the issue of 
“honesty and trust” during the Chinese People’s Congress. In college entrance 
exams, students are required to write about honesty and trust. This is a 
reflection of a huge, looming crisis induced by the lack of trust and honesty 
and the decline in morality. This crisis, although invisible, is ubiquitous. 
Corruption, embezzlement, fake products, deception, and individual and 
society-wide moral decline are commonplace. There is no longer any basic trust 
between people. 
For those who claim to be satisfied with an improved standard of living, isn’t 
stability in their lives their primary concern? What is the most important 
factor in social stability? It is morality. A society with degraded morality 
cannot possibly provide security and assurance. 
The CCP has cracked down on almost all traditional religions by now and has 
dismantled the traditional value system. The unscrupulous way by which the CCP 
seizes wealth and deceives people has had a trickle down effect on the entire 
society, turning the society into one of scoundrels. The CCP, which rules by 
means of scoundrels, also essentially needs a scoundrel society as an 
environment to survive. That is why the CCP tries everything it can to drag the 
people down to its level, attempting to turn the Chinese people into scoundrels 
to various extents. This is how the CCP’s scoundrel nature is eradicating the 
moral foundation that had long sustained the Chinese people. 
******************
Conclusion 
“It is easier to alter rivers and mountains than to change one's nature.” [15] 
History has proven that every time the CCP loosens its bondage and chains, it 
does so without intending to abandon them. After the Great Famine of the early 
1960s, the CCP adapted economic reform policies [16] aiming to restore 
agricultural production, but without the intent to change the “slave” status of 
Chinese peasants. The economic reform and liberalization in the 1980s had no 
constraint on the CCP’s raising of a butcher’s knife on its own people in 1989. 
In the future, the CCP will continue to alter its façade but will not change its 
scoundrel nature. 
Some people may think that the past belongs to the past and the situation has 
changed, and that the CCP now is not the CCP then. Some may be satisfied with 
the false appearance they see and even mistakenly believe that the CCP has 
improved, is in the process of reforming, or intends to make amends; thus, they 
constantly brush away past memories. All these can only give the CCP scoundrel 
group the opportunity to continue to survive and threaten humankind. 
All efforts by the CCP are to make people forget the past. All of the people’s 
struggles are to remember what has happened. 
In fact, the history of the CCP is a history that has severed people’s memories, 
a history in which children don’t know the true experiences of their parents, a 
history in which hundreds of millions of ordinary citizens live in and suffer 
from the enormous conflict between cursing the CCP’s past and holding out hope 
for the CCP’s present. 
When the evil specter of communism fell upon the human world, the Communist 
Party unleashed the scum of society and utilized the rebellion of hoodlums to 
seize and establish political power. What it has done, by means of bloodstained 
rule and tyranny, is establish and maintain despotism in the form of a “Party 
Possession.” By using the so-called ideology of “struggle” that opposes nature, 
heaven’s laws, human nature, and the universe, it destroys human conscience and 
benevolence, and further destroys traditional civilization and morality. It has 
used bloody slaughters and forced brainwashing to establish an evil communist 
cult, creating a nation of insanity in order to rule the country. Throughout the 
history of the CCP, there have been violent periods when the red terror reached 
its peak, and awkward periods when the CCP narrowly escaped being destroyed. 
Each time, the CCP used its scoundrel behavior to extricate itself from crises, 
but only to head for the next round of violence, continuing to deceive the 
Chinese people. 
When people recognize the CCP’s scoundrel nature and resist being deceived by 
its false images, the end will arrive for the CCP and its scoundrel nature. 
********
In comparison with China’s 5,000-year history, the 55 years of the CCP’s rule go 
by in a blink of an eye. Before the CCP came into existence, China had created 
the most magnificent civilization in the history of humankind. The CCP seized 
the opportunity of China’s domestic troubles and foreign invasion to wreak havoc 
on the Chinese nation. It has taken away tens of millions of lives, destroyed 
countless families, and sacrificed the ecological resources upon which China’s 
survival depends. What is even more devastating is the near destruction of 
China’s moral basis and prominent cultural tradition. 
What will be the future of China? What direction will China take? Such serious 
questions are too complicated to discuss in a few words. However, one thing is 
for certain: if there is no reconstruction of the nation’s morality, no 
restoration of the relationships between humans and nature, and between humans, 
heaven and earth, if there is no faith or culture for a peaceful coexistence 
among humans, it will be impossible for the Chinese nation to have a bright 
future. 
With several decades of brainwashing and suppression, the CCP has instilled its 
way of thinking and its standard for good and bad into the depths of the Chinese 
people’s lives. This has led them to accept and identify with the CCP’s 
fabrication to a certain degree, and become part of its falsehood, thereby 
providing the ideological basis for its existence. 
To eliminate from our lives the wicked doctrines instilled by the CCP, to see 
clearly the CCP’s completely evil nature, and to restore our human nature and 
conscience—this is the first essential and necessary step on the path toward a 
smooth transition into a CCP-free society. 
Whether this path can be walked steadily and peacefully will depend on changes 
made in every Chinese person’s heart. Even though the CCP appears to possess all 
the resources and violent apparatuses in the country, if every Chinese person 
believes in the power of the truth and safeguards our morality, the evil specter 
of the CCP will lose the foundation for its existence. All resources may return 
to the hands of the righteous instantly, and that is when the rebirth of China 
will take place. 
Only without the Chinese Communist Party, would there be a new China. 
Only without the Chinese Communist Party, would China have hope. 
Without the Chinese Communist Party, the righteous and kind Chinese people will 
rebuild China’s historical magnificence. 
Notes: 
[1] According to traditional Confucian thought, emperors or kings rule according 
to the mandate from heaven, and to be given such an authority, their moral 
achievements have to match that supreme responsibility. From the Mencius, a 
similar thought can also be found. In the verse “Who Grants the Monarchical 
Power?” Mencius said, “It was from heaven.” when asked who granted the land and 
the governing authority to Emperor Shun. The idea of the divine origin of power 
can also be found in western Christian tradition. In Romans 13:1 of the Bible 
(King James version), for example, one finds that “Let every soul be subject 
unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are 
ordained of God.”
[2] The one center refers to economic development, while the two basic points 
are: Maintain the four basic principles (socialist path, dictatorship of the 
proletariat, the CCP’s leadership, Marxism-Leninism and Mao’s Thought), and 
continue with the policies of reform and openness. 
[3] Data come from a report by Xinhua News Agency on March 4th, 2004. 
[4] Mu is a unit of area used in China. One mu is 0.165 acres.
[5] Data come from a report by Xinhua News Agency on February 29th, 2004.
[6] The “Three No Principle” has occurred in the past. In 1979, Deng Xiaoping 
proposed a “Three No Principle” to encourage people to speak their minds: No 
labeling, no attacking, and no picking on mistakes. This should remind people of 
Mao similarly encouraging intellectuals in the 1950s, which was followed by 
brutal persecution of those who did speak up. Now, the newly proposed “Three 
No’s” refer to “Development with no debates, advancement with no struggles, and 
progress with no contentment in lagging behind.”
[7] Hong Kong Basic Law Article 23 was proposed in 2002 by the Hong Kong 
government under pressure from Beijing. The article represented a serious 
erosion of freedom and human rights in Hong Kong, undermining the “one country, 
two systems” policy promised by the CCP. Article 23 was opposed globally, and 
was finally withdrawn in 2003.
[8] Dong Cunrui died in 1949 during a war in Longhua, in today’s Heibei 
province, when he held explosives on his body to bomb the fortress of the KMT 
army. Huang Jiguang died on a battle in North Korea in 1952 during the US-Korea 
war, when he attempted to use his body to block the American machine gun. 
[9] Liu Shaoqi, Chairman of China between 1959 and 1968, was considered to be 
the successor to Mao Zedong. During the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), he was 
persecuted as a traitor, spy, and renegade. He died in 1969 after being severely 
abused under the CCP’s imprisonment. 
[10] CCTV (China Central Television) is owned and directly operated by the 
central government. It is the major broadcast network in Mainland China.
[11] These quoted phrases are all titles of songs written and sung during the 
Mao era in the 1960s and early 1970s.
[12] Mao once said that we are afraid of making mistakes, but we are concerned 
about correcting them.
[13] For detailed analysis of the self-immolation video, please refer to the 
following website: http://www.clearharmony.net/articles/200109/1165.html.
[14] Superstructure in the context of Marxist social theory refers to the way of 
interaction between human subjectivity and the material substance of society. 
[15] This is a Chinese proverb that confirms the permanence of one's nature. The 
proverb has also been translated as “The fox may change his skin but not his 
habits.”
[16] The economic reform policies, known as the “three-freedom and one-contract” 
program (San Zi Yi Bao) proposed by Liu Shaoqi, then President of China. The 
program stipulated plots of land for private use, free markets, enterprises 
having sole responsibility for their own profits and losses, and the fixing of 
output quotas on a household basis.

-------------- next part --------------

Epoch Times Commentaries on the Chinese Communist Party - Part 8
How the Chinese Communist Party Is an Evil Cult
 
Foreword
The collapse of the socialist bloc headed by the Soviet Union in the early 
1990’s marked the failure of communism after almost a century. However, the 
Chinese Communist Party (CCP) unexpectedly survived and still controls China, a 
nation with one fifth of the world’s population. An unavoidable question arises: 
Is the CCP today still truly communist? 
No one in today’s China, including Party members, believes in communism. After 
fifty years of socialism, the CCP has now adopted private ownership and even has 
a stock market. It seeks foreign investment to establish new ventures, while 
exploiting workers and peasants to the maximal extent. This is completely 
opposite to the ideals of communism. Despite compromising with capitalism, the 
CCP maintains autocratic control of the people of China. The Constitution, as 
revised in 2004, still rigidly states “Chinese people of various ethnicities 
will continue adhering to the people’s democratic dictatorship and socialist 
path under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party and the guidance of 
Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong’s ideology, Deng Xiaoping’s theory and the 
important thought of the ‘Three Represents’…” 
“The leopard has died, but its skin is still left” [1]. Today’s CCP only has 
“its skin” left. The CCP inherited this skin and uses it to maintain its rule 
over China. 
What is the nature of the skin inherited by the CCP, i.e., the very organization 
of the CCP? 
******************
I. The Cultish Traits of the CCP 
The Communist Party is essentially an evil cult that harms mankind. 
Although the Communist Party has never called itself a religion, it matches 
every single trait of a religion (Table 1). At the beginning of its 
establishment, it regarded Marxism as the absolute truth in the world. It 
piously worshipped Marx as its spiritual God, and exhorted people to engage in a 
life-long struggle for the goal of building a “communist heaven on earth.”
Table 1. Religious Traits of the CCP.
       The Basic Forms of a ReligionThe Corresponding Forms of the CCP
      1Church or platform (podium)All levels of the Party committee; the 
      platform ranges from Party meetings to all media controlled by the CCP
      2DoctrinesMarxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong's Ideology, Deng Xiaoping's Theory, 
      Jiang Zemin's "Three Represents", and Party Constitution
      3Initiation ritesCeremony in which oaths are taken to be loyal to the CCP 
      forever
      4Commitment to one religionA member may only believe in the communist 
party
      5PriestsParty Secretaries and staff in charge of party affairs on all 
      levels
      6Worshiping GodSlandering all Gods, and then establishing itself as an 
      unnamed "God"
      7Death is called "ascending to heaven or descending to hell"Death is 
      called "going to see Marx"
      8ScripturesThe theory and writings of the Communist Party leaders
      9PreachingAll sorts of meetings; leaders' speeches
      10Chanting scriptures; study or cross-examination of scripturesPolitical 
      studies; routine group meetings or activities for the Party members
      11Hymn (religious songs)Songs to eulogize the Party
      12DonationsCompulsory membership fees; mandatory allocation of 
      governmental budget, which is money from people's sweat and blood, for the 
      Party's use
      13Disciplinary punishmentParty disciplines ranging from "house arrest and 
      investigation" and "expulsion from the Party" to deadly tortures and even 
      punishments of relatives and friends

The Communist Party is significantly different from any righteous religion. All 
orthodox religions believe in God and benevolence, and have as their destiny 
instructing humanity about morality and saving souls. The Communist Party does 
not believe in God and opposes traditional morality. 
What the Communist Party has done proves itself to be an evil cult. The 
Communist Party’s doctrines are based upon class struggle, violent revolution 
and the dictatorship of the proletariat and have resulted in the so-called 
“communist revolution” full of blood and violence. The red terror under 
communism has lasted for about a century, bringing disasters to dozens of 
countries in the world and costing tens of millions of lives. The communist 
belief, one that created a hell on earth, is nothing but the vilest cult in the 
world. 
The communist party’s cultish traits can be summarized under six heads: 
1. Concoction of Doctrines and Elimination of Dissidents 
The Communist Party holds up Marxism as its religious doctrine and shows it off 
as “the unbreakable truth.” The doctrines of the Communist Party lack 
benevolence and tolerance. Instead, they are full of arrogance. Marxism was a 
product of the initial period of capitalism when productivity was low and 
science was under-developed. It didn’t have a correct understanding at all of 
the relationships between humanity and society or humanity and nature. 
Unfortunately, this heretical ideology developed into the international 
communist movement, and harmed the human world for over a century before the 
people discarded it, having found it completely wrong in practice. 
Party leaders since Lenin have always amended the cult’s doctrines. From Lenin's 
theory of violent revolution to Mao Zedong's theory of continuous revolution 
under the dictatorship of the proletariat, to Jiang Zemin's “Three Represents,” 
the Communist Party’s history is full of such heretical theory and fallacy. 
Although these theories have constantly caused disasters in practice and are 
self-contradictory, the Communist Party still proclaims it is universally 
correct and forces the people to study its doctrines. 
Eliminating dissidents is the most effective means for the evil cult of 
communism to spread its doctrine. Because the doctrine and behavior of this evil 
cult are too ridiculous, the communist party has to force people to accept them, 
relying on violence to eliminate dissidents. After the Chinese Communist Party 
seized the reins of power in China, it initiated “land reform” to eliminate the 
landlord class, the “socialist reform” in industry and commerce to eliminate 
capitalists, the “movement of purging reactionaries” to eliminate folk religions 
and officials who held office before the communists took power, the 
“anti-rightist movement” to silence intellectuals, and the “Great Cultural 
Revolution” to eradicate traditional Chinese culture. The CCP was able to unify 
China under the communist evil cult and achieve a situation where everyone read 
the Red Book, performed the “loyalty dance,” and “asked for the Party’s 
instructions in the morning and reported to the Party in the evening.” In the 
period after Mao and Deng’s reigns, the CCP asserted that Falun Gong, a 
traditional cultivation practice that believes in “Truthfulness, Compassion and 
Tolerance,” would compete with it for the masses and so intended to eradicate 
Falun Gong. It therefore initiated a genocidal persecution of Falun Gong, which 
continues today. 
2. Promotion of Leader Worship and Supremacist Views 
>From Marx to Jiang Zemin, the Communist Party leaders’ portraits are prominently 
displayed for worship. The absolute authority of the Communist Party leaders 
forbids any challenge. Mao Zedong was set up as the “red sun” and “big 
liberator.” The Party spoke outrageously about his writing, saying “one sentence 
equals 10,000 ordinary sentences.” As an “ordinary party member,” Deng Xiaoping 
once dominated Chinese politics like an overlord. Jiang Zemin’s “Three 
Represents” theory is merely a little over 40 characters long including 
punctuation, but the CCP Fourth Plenary Session boosted it as “providing a 
creative answer to questions such as what socialism is, how to construct 
socialism, what kind of party we are building and how to build the Party.” The 
Party also spoke outrageously about the thought of the “Three Represents,” 
although in this case actually mocking it when saying it is a continuation and 
development of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought and Deng Xiaoping Theory. 
Stalin’s wanton slaughter of innocent people, the catastrophic “Great Cultural 
Revolution” launched by Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping’s order for the Tiananmen 
Massacre and Jiang Zemin’s ongoing persecution of Falun Gong are the dreadful 
results of the Communist Party’s heretical dictatorship. 
On one hand, the CCP stipulates in its Constitution, “All power in the People's 
Republic of China belongs to the people. The organs through which the people 
exercise state power are the National People's Congress and the local people's 
congresses at different levels.” “No organization or individual may enjoy the 
privilege of being above the Constitution and the law.” [2] On the other hand, 
the CCP Charter stipulates that the CCP is the core of the leadership for the 
Chinese-featured socialist cause, overriding both the country and the people. 
The chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress made 
“important speeches” across the country, claiming that the National People's 
Congress, the highest organ of state power, must adhere to the CCP's leadership. 
According to the CCP's principle of “democratic centralism,” the entire party 
must obey the Central Committee of the Party. Stripped to its core, what the 
National People’s Congress really insists upon is the dictatorship of the 
General Secretary, which is in turn protected in the form of legislation. 
3. Violent Brainwashing, Mind Control, Tight Organization and No Quitting Once 
Admitted 
The CCP's organization is extremely tight: one needs two party members’ 
references before admission; a new member must swear to be loyal to the party 
forever once admitted; party members must pay membership dues, attend 
organizational activities, and take part in group political study. The party 
organizations penetrate all levels of the government. There are basic CCP 
organizations in every single village, town, and neighborhood. The CCP controls 
not only its party members and party affairs, but also those who are not 
members, because the entire regime must “adhere to the Party's leadership.” In 
those years when class struggle campaigns were carried out, the “priests” of the 
CCP religion, namely, the Party secretaries at all levels, more often than not, 
did not know exactly what they did other than disciplining people. 
The “criticism and self-criticism” in the party meetings serves as a common, 
unending means for controlling the minds of party members. Historically, the CCP 
launched a multitude of political movements for “purifying the Party members,” 
“rectifying the Party atmosphere,” “capturing traitors,” “purging the 
Anti-Bolshevik Corps (AB Corps) [3]” and “disciplining the Party,” periodically 
testing the “sense of Party nature” or aptitude for the Party of its members 
with violence and terror and keeping them in step with the Party forever. 
Joining the CCP is like signing an irrevocable contract to sell one’s body and 
soul. With the Party’s rules being always above the laws of the Nation, the 
Party can dismiss any party member at will, while the individual party member 
cannot quit the CCP without incurring severe punishment. Quitting the Party is 
considered disloyal and will bring about dire consequences. During the Great 
Cultural Revolution when the CCP cult held absolute rule, it was well known that 
if the party wanted you dead, you could not live; if the party wanted you alive, 
you could not die. If a person committed suicide, he would be labeled as 
“dreading the people’s punishment for his crime” and his family members would 
also be implicated and punished. 
The decision process within the Party operates like a black box, as the 
intra-party struggles must be kept in absolute secrecy. Party documents are all 
confidential. Dreading exposure of their criminal acts, the CCP frequently 
tackles dissidents by charging them with “divulging state secrets.” 
4. Urging Violence, Carnage and Sacrifice for the Party 
Mao Zedong said, “A revolution is not a dinner party, or writing an essay, or 
painting a picture, or doing embroidery; it cannot be so refined, so leisurely 
and gentle, so temperate, kind, courteous, restrained and magnanimous. A 
revolution is an insurrection, an act of violence by which one class overthrows 
another.” [4] 
Deng Xiaoping remarked, “Killing 200,000 people in exchange for 20 years’ 
stability.” 
Jiang Zemin ordered, “Destroy them (Falun Gong practitioners) physically, defame 
their reputation, and bankrupt them financially.” 
The CCP promotes violence, and has killed countless people throughout its 
previous political movements. It educates people to treat the enemy “as cold as 
the severe winter.” The Red Flag is taken red for having been “dyed red with 
martyrs’ blood.” The Party worships red due to its addiction to blood and 
carnage. 
The CCP makes an exhibition of “heroic” examples to encourage people to 
sacrifice for the Party. When Zhang Side died working in a kiln to produce 
opium, Mao Zedong praised his death as “heavy as Mount Tai [5].” In those 
frenzied years, “brave words” such as “Fear neither hardship nor death” and 
“Bitter sacrifice strengthens bold resolve; we dare to make the sun and moon 
shine in new skies” gave aspirations substance amidst an extreme shortage of 
material supplies. 
At the end of the 1970's, the Vietcong dispatched troops and overthrew the Khmer 
Rouge regime, which was fostered by the CCP and committed unspeakable crimes. 
Although the CCP was furious, it could not dispatch troops to support the Khmer 
Rouge, since China and Cambodia did not share a common border. Instead, the CCP 
launched a war against Vietnam along the Chinese-Vietnam border to punish the 
Vietcong in the name of “self-defense.” Tens of thousands of Chinese soldiers 
therefore sacrificed blood and lives for this struggle between Communist 
Parties. Their deaths had in fact nothing to do with territory or sovereignty. 
Nevertheless, several years later, the CCP disgracefully memorialized the 
senseless sacrifice of so many naive and bright young lives as “the 
revolutionary heroic spirit,” irreverently borrowing the song “The elegant 
demeanor dyed by blood.” While 154 Chinese martyrs died in 1981 recapturing 
Mount Faka in Guangxi Province, the CCP casually returned it to Vietnam after 
China and Vietnam surveyed the boundary. 
When the rampant spread of SARS threatened people's lives at the beginning of 
2003, the CCP readily admitted many young female nurses. These women were then 
quickly confined in hospitals to nurse SARS patients. The CCP push young people 
to the most dangerous frontline, in order to establish its “glorious image” of 
“Fear neither hardship nor death.” However, the CCP has no explanation as to 
where the rest of the current 65 million party members were and what image they 
brought to the Party. 
5. Denying Belief in God and Smothering Human Nature 
The CCP promotes atheism and claims that religion is “spiritual opium” that can 
intoxicate the people. It used its power to squelch all religions in China, and 
then it deified itself, giving absolute rule of the country to the CCP cult. 
At the same time as the CCP sabotaged religion, it also destroyed traditional 
culture. It claimed that tradition, morality and ethics were feudalistic, 
superstitious and reactionary, eradicating them in the name of revolution. 
During the great Cultural Revolution, widespread ugly phenomena violated Chinese 
traditions, such as married couples exposing each other, students beating their 
teachers, fathers and sons turning against each other, Red Guards wantonly 
killing the innocent, and rebels beating, smashing and looting. These were the 
natural consequences of the CCP’s smothering human nature. 
After establishing its regime, the CCP forced minority nationalities to pledge 
allegiance to the communist leadership, compromising the rich and colorful 
ethnic culture they had established. 
On June 4, 1989, the so-called “People's Liberation Army” massacred many 
students in Beijing. This caused the Chinese to completely lose hope in China’s 
political future. From then on, the entire people turned their focus to making 
money. From 1999 to this day, the CCP has been brutally persecuting Falun Gong, 
turning against “Truthfulness, Compassion and Tolerance” and thereby causing an 
accelerated decline in moral standards. 
At the beginning of this new century, a new round of illegal land enclosure [6] 
and control of monetary and material resources has driven many people to become 
destitute and homeless. The number of appellants increased sharply, and social 
conflict has intensified. Large-scale protests are frequent, which have incurred 
violent suppression by police and armed forces. The fascist nature of the 
“Republic” has become prominent, and society has lost its moral conscience. 
In the past, a villain didn’t harm his next door neighbors, or, as the saying 
goes, the fox preyed far from home. Nowadays, when people want to con someone, 
they would rather target their relatives and friends, and call it “killing 
acquaintances.” 
In the past, Chinese nationals cherished chastity above all else, whereas people 
today ridicule the poor but not the prostitutes. The history of the destruction 
of human nature and morals in China is vividly displayed in a ballad below: 

“In the 50's people helped one another,
In the 60's people strove with one another,
In the 70's people swindled one another, 
In the 80's people cared only for themselves, 
In the 90's people took advantage of anyone they ran into.”
6. Military Seizure of Power, Monopolization of the Economy and Wild Political 
and Economic Ambitions 
The sole purpose of establishing the CCP was to seize power by armed force and 
then to generate a system of state ownership in which the state held monopolies 
in the planned economy. The CCP’s wild ambition far surpasses that of the 
ordinary evil cults who simply accumulate money. 
In a country of socialist public ownership ruled by the Communist Party, Party 
organizations that hold great power, that is, the Party committees and branches 
at various levels, are imposed upon or possess the normal state infrastructure. 
The possessing Party organizations control state machinery and draw funds 
directly from the budgets of the governments at different levels. Like a 
vampire, the CCP has sucked a huge amount of wealth from the nation. 
******************
II. The Damage the CCP Cult Has Wrought 
When incidents like Aum Shinri Kyo (Supreme Truth) killing people with sarin 
nerve gas, the Solar Temple’s ascending to heaven by suicide, or the mass 
suicide of over 900 followers of Jim Jones’ “People’s Temple” are mentioned, 
everyone trembles with fear and outrage. The CCP is, however, an evil cult that 
commits crimes a thousand times worse, harming countless lives. This is because 
the CCP possesses the following unique features that ordinary cults lack. 
The Evil Cult Became a State Religion 
In most countries, if you do not follow a religion, you can still enjoy a happy 
life without reading the literature or listening to the principles of that 
religion. In mainland China, however, it is impossible for one to live there 
without a constant exposure to the doctrines and propaganda of the CCP cult, as 
the CCP has turned this evil cult into a state religion since its seizure of 
power. 
The CCP begins to instill its political preaching in as early as kindergarten 
and elementary school. One cannot receive higher education or promotion to 
higher office without passing the Political Examination. None of the questions 
in the Political Examination allow independent thinking. Those taking the exams 
are required to memorize the standard answers provided by the CCP in order to 
pass. The unfortunate Chinese people are forced to repeat the CCP’s preaching 
even when they are young, brainwashing themselves over and over again. When a 
cadre is promoted to a higher office in the government, whether he is a member 
of the CCP or not, he has to attend the Party School. He won’t be promoted until 
he has met the requirements for graduation from the Party School. 
In China, where the Communist Party is the state religion, groups with different 
opinions are not allowed to exist. Even the “democratic parties,” which are 
merely set up by the CCP as a political screen, and the reformed “Three-Self 
Church” (i.e., self-administration, self-support and self-propagation) must 
formally acknowledge the leadership of the CCP. Loyalty to the CCP is the first 
priority before entertaining any other beliefs, according to the very cultish 
logic of the CCP. 
Social Controls Go to Extremes 
This evil cult was able to become a state religion, because the CCP had complete 
social controls and deprived individuals of freedom. This kind of control is 
unprecedented, since the CCP deprived people of private property, while private 
ownership is one foundation of freedom. Before the 1980’s, people in urban areas 
could only earn a living by working in Party-controlled enterprises. Farmers in 
the rural areas had to live on the farm land belonging to the communes of the 
Party. Nobody could escape the CCP’s control. In a socialist country like China, 
the Communist Party organizations are ubiquitous—from the central government to 
the most grass-roots levels of society, including villages and neighborhoods. 
Through the Party committees and branches at all levels, the CCP maintains an 
absolute control over society. Such strict control completely squelches 
individual freedom—the freedom of movement (residence registration system), 
freedom of speech (500,000 rightists were persecuted in history because they 
exercised free speech), freedom of thought (Lin Zhao and Zhang Zhixin [7] were 
executed for having doubts about the CCP), and freedom to obtain information (it 
is illegal to read forbidden books or listen to 'enemies’ radio stations”; 
Internet browsing is monitored as well.) 
One might say that private ownership is allowed now by the CCP, but we should 
not forget that this policy of reform and openness only came about when 
socialism reached a point where people did not have enough to eat and the 
national economy was on the brink of collapse. The CCP had to take a step back 
in order to save itself from destruction. Nevertheless, even after the reform 
and opening, the CCP has never relaxed its control over the people. The ongoing 
brutal persecution of Falun Gong practitioners could have only occurred in a 
country controlled by the Communist Party. When the CCP became an economic 
force, it was inevitable that the CCP would intensify its control over the 
Chinese people. 
Advocating Violence and Despising Life 
Almost all evil cults control their followers or resist external pressure 
through violence. However, few have resorted to the extent the CCP has to 
violent means without compunction. Even the total number of deaths caused by all 
other evil cults across the world cannot compare to the number of people killed 
by the CCP. The CCP cult sees humanity as merely a means to realize its goal; 
killing is just another means. Thus, the CCP has no reservations and scruples in 
persecuting people. Anyone, including supporters, members and leaders of the 
CCP, can become a target of its persecution. 
The CCP fostered the Cambodian Khmer Rouge, a typical case of the Communist 
Party’s brutality and disregard for life. Inspired and guided by Mao Zedong’s 
teaching, during its reign of three years and eight months, the Pol Pot-led 
Cambodian Communist Party slaughtered two million people—about one-fourth of 
this small country’s entire population—in order to “eliminate the system of 
private ownership.” Out of the total number of deaths, more than 200,000 were of 
Chinese ethnicity. 
To commemorate the crimes committed by the Communist Party and memorialize the 
victims, Cambodia set up a museum for documenting and exhibiting the atrocities 
of the Khmer Rouge. The museum is in a former Khmer Rouge prison. Originally a 
high school, the building was transformed by Pol Pot to the S-21 Prison, which 
was used specifically for dealing with prisoners of conscience. Many 
intellectuals were detained there and tortured to death. Displayed along with 
the prison buildings and various torture instruments are also the black and 
white photos of the victims before they were put to death. There are many 
horrible tortures documented: throats cut, brains drilled, infants thrown to the 
ground and killed, etc. All these torture methods were reportedly taught by the 
“experts and technical professionals” that the CCP dispatched in support of the 
Khmer Rouge. The CCP even trained the photographers, who specialized in taking 
pictures, whether for documentation or entertainment, of the prisoners before 
they were executed. 
Precisely in this S-21 Prison a head-drilling machine was devised to extract the 
human brains for making nutritious foods for the leaders of the Cambodian 
Communist Party. The prisoners of conscience were tied to a chair in front of 
the head-drilling machine. The victim would be extremely terrified, as a rapidly 
turning drill bit punctured the head from behind and quickly and effectively 
extracted the brains before the victim died. 
******************
III. The Communist Party’s Cult Nature 
What makes the Communist Party so tyrannical and so evil? When this specter of 
the Communist Party came to this world, it came with a chilling mission. The 
Communist Manifesto has a very famous passage towards the end, 
The Communists disdain to conceal their views and aims. They openly declare that 
their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social 
conditions. Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The 
proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win.
The mission of this specter was to use violence to openly challenge the human 
society, to smash the old world, “to eliminate private ownership,” “to eliminate 
the character, independence and freedom of the bourgeoisie,” to eliminate 
exploitation, to eliminate families, and to let the proletarians govern the 
world. 
This political party, which openly announced the desire to “beat, smash and 
rob,” not only denies its point of view to be evil, but also declared 
self-righteously in the Communist Manifesto, “The Communist revolution is the 
most radical rupture with traditional relations; no wonder that its development 
involved the most radical rupture with traditional ideas.” 
Where do the traditional thoughts come from? According to the atheist’s law of 
nature, the traditional thoughts come naturally from the laws of nature and the 
society. They are the results of systematic movements of the cosmos. According 
to those who believe in God, however, the human traditions and moral values are 
given by God. Regardless of their origin, the most fundamental human morality, 
behavioral norms, and standards of judging good and bad are relatively stable; 
they have been the basis for regulating human behavior and maintaining social 
order for thousands of years. If mankind lost the moral norms and standards for 
judging good and bad, wouldn’t humans degenerate into animals? When the 
Communist Manifesto declares it will “fundamentally rupture with traditional 
ideas,” it threatens the basis for the normal existence of human society. The 
Communist Party was bound to become an evil cult that brings destruction to 
mankind. 
The entire document of Communist Manifesto, which sets forth the guiding 
principles for the communist party, is permeated with extreme pronouncements but 
not a bit of kindness and tolerance. Marx and Engels thought they had found the 
law of social development through dialectic materialism. Hence, with the "truth" 
in hand, they questioned everything and denied everything. They stubbornly 
imposed the illusionary Communism on the people and did not hold back in 
advocating the use of violence to destroy existing social structures and 
cultural foundations. The evil specter the Communist Manifesto injected into the 
newborn Communist Party is against the laws of heaven, damaging to human nature, 
arrogant, extremely selfish and totally unconstrained. 
******************
IV. The Communist Party’s Doomsday Theory—the Fear of the Party Ending 
Marx and Engels injected an evil specter into the Communist Party. Lenin 
established the Communist Party in Russia and, through the scoundrels’ violence, 
he overthrew the transitional government built after the February Revolution, 
[8] aborted the bourgeois revolution in Russia, took over the government, and 
obtained a foothold for the Communist cult. However, Lenin’s success did not 
make the proletarians win the world. Just the contrary, as the first paragraph 
in the Communist Manifesto says, “All the powers of old Europe have entered into 
a holy alliance to exorcise this spectre...” After the Communist Party was born, 
it immediately faced the crisis of its survival and feared elimination at 
anytime. 
After the October Revolution [9], the Russian Communists, or Bolsheviks, did not 
bring the people peace or bread, but only wanton killing. The front line was 
losing the war and the revolution worsened the economy in the society. Hence, 
the people started to rebel. Civil war quickly spread to the entire nation and 
the farmers refused to provide food to the cities. A full-scale riot originated 
among the Cossacks near the River Don; its battle with the Red Army brought 
brutal bloodshed. The barbaric and brutal nature of the slaughter that took 
place in this battle can be seen from the literature such as Sholokhov’s “Tikhii 
Don” and his other Don River story collections. The troops, lead by the former 
White Army Admiral Aleksandr Vailiyevich Kolchak and General Anton Denikin, 
almost overthrew the Russian Communist Party at one point. Even as a newborn 
political power, the Communist party was opposed by almost the entire nation, 
perhaps because the Communist cult was too evil to win the people’s hearts. 
The experience of the Chinese Communist Party was similar to Russia’s. From the 
“Mari Incident” and “April 12th Massacre,”[10] to being suppressed five times in 
areas controlled by the Chinese Communists, and eventually to being forced to 
undertake a 25,000-kilometer (15,600 miles) “Long March” — the CCP always faced 
the crisis of being eliminated. 
The Communist Party was born with the determination to destroy the old world by 
all means. It then found itself having to face a real problem: how to survive 
without being eliminated. The Communist Party has been living in a constant fear 
of its own demise. To survive has become the Communist cult’s top concern, its 
all-consuming focus. With the international Communist alliance in disarray, the 
CCP’s crisis of survival has worsened. Since 1989, its fear of its own doomsday 
has become more real as its demise has come nearer. 
******************
V. The Treasured Weapon for the Communist Cult’s Survival—Brutal Struggle 
The Communist Party has constantly emphasized iron discipline, absolute loyalty, 
and organizational principles. Those who join the CCP must swear, 
“I wish to join the Chinese Communist Party, to support the Party’s 
constitution, follow the Party’s regulations, fulfill the member’s obligations, 
execute the Party’s decisions, strictly follow the Party’s disciplines, keep the 
Party’s secrets, be loyal to the Party, work diligently, dedicate my whole life 
to Communism, stand ready to sacrifice everything for the Party and the people, 
and never betray the Party.” (See the CCP Constitution, Chapter One, Article 
Six)
The CCP calls this spirit of cult-like devotion to the Party the "sense of Party 
nature.” It asks a CCP member to be ready anytime to give up all personal 
beliefs and principles and to obey absolutely the Party’s will and the leader’s 
will. If the Party wants you to be kind, then you should be kind; if the Party 
wants you to do evil, then you should do evil. Otherwise you would not meet the 
standard of being a Party member, having not shown a strong “sense of Party 
nature.” 
Mao Zedong said, “Marxist philosophy is a philosophy of struggle.” To foster and 
maintain the “sense of Party nature,” the CCP relies on the mechanism of 
periodical struggles within the Party. Through continuously mobilizing brutal 
struggles inside and outside the Party, the CCP has eliminated dissidents and 
created the red terror. At the same time, the CCP continuously purges Party 
members, makes its cult-type rules stricter, and fosters members’ aptitude 
towards the “Party nature” to enhance the Party’s fighting capacity. This is a 
treasured weapon the CP uses to prolong its survival. 
Among CCP leaders, Mao Zedong was the most adept at mastering this treasured 
weapon of brutal struggle within the Party. The brutality of such a struggle and 
the malevolence of its methods began as early as the 1930's in areas controlled 
by the Chinese Communists, the so-called “Soviet Area.” 
In 1930, Mao Zedong initiated a full-scale revolutionary terror in the Soviet 
Area in Jiangxi Province, known as the cleansing of Anti-Bolshevik Corps, or the 
AB Corps. Thousands of Red Army soldiers, Party and League members and civilians 
in the Communist bases were brutally murdered. The incident was caused by Mao’s 
despotic control. After Mao established the Soviet Area in Jiangxi, he was soon 
challenged by the local Red Army and Party organizations in southwest Jiangxi 
led by Li Wenlin. Mao could not stand any organized oppositional force right 
under his nose and he used the most extreme methods to suppress the Party 
members he suspected of being dissidents. To create a stern atmosphere for the 
cleansing, Mao did not hesitate to start with troops under his direct control. 
>From late November to mid December, the First Front Red Army went through a 
“quick cleaning.” Organizations for purging counterrevolutionaries were 
established at every single level in the army, including division, regiment, 
battalion, company, and platoon, arresting and killing Party members who were 
from families of landlords or rich farmers and those who had complaints. In less 
than one month, among more than 40,000 Red Army soldiers, 4,400 were named as AB 
Corps elements, including more than 10 captains (the AB Corps captains); all of 
them were executed. [3] 
In the following period, Mao began to punish those dissidents in the Soviet 
Area. In December 1930, he ordered Li Shaojiu, Secretary General of General 
Political Department of the First Front Red Army and Chairman of Purge Committee 
to represent the General Frontier Committee and go to the town of Futian in 
Jiangxi Province where the Communist government is located. Li Shaojiu arrested 
members of the Provincial Action Committee and eight chief leaders of the 20th 
Red Army, including Duan Liangbi and Li Baifang. He used many cruel torture 
methods such as beating and burning the body - people who were tortured like 
this had injuries all over their bodies, fingers fractured, burns all over and 
could not move. According to historical materials, the victims’ cries were so 
loud as to pierce the sky; the cruel torture methods were extremely inhumane. 
[3] 
On December 8, the wives of Li Baifang, Ma Ming and Zhou Mian went to visit 
their husbands in detention, but they were also arrested as members of the AB 
Corps and cruelly tortured. They were severely beaten, their bodies and vulvae 
burned and breasts cut with knives. Under the cruel torture, Duan Liangbi 
confessed that Li Wenlin, Jin Wanbang, Liu Di, Zhou Mian, Ma Ming and others 
were leaders of the AB Corps and that there were many members of AB Corps in the 
Red Army’s schools. [3] 
>From December 7 to the evening of December 12, in merely five days, Li Shaojiu 
and others arrested more than 120 alleged AB Corps members and dozens of 
principal counter-revolutionaries in the severe AB Corps cleansing in Futian; 
more than 40 people were executed. Li Shaojiu’s cruel acts finally triggered the 
“Futian Incident” [11] on December 12, 1930 that highly astounded the Soviet 
Area. [3] 
>From the Soviet Area to Yan’an, Mao relied on his theory and practice of 
struggle and gradually sought and established his absolute leadership of the 
Party. After the CCP came to power in 1949, Mao continued to reply on this kind 
of inner-party struggle. For example, in the eighth plenum of the Eighth CCP 
Central Committee meeting held in Lushan in 1959, Mao Zedong launched a sudden 
attack on Peng Dehuai and removed him from his position [12]. All of the central 
leaders who attended the conference were asked to take a stand; the few who 
dared to express different opinions were all labeled the Peng Dehuai antiparty 
bloc. During the Cultural Revolution, the veteran cadres at the CCP’s Central 
Committee were punished one after another, but all of them gave in without 
putting up a fight. Who would dare to speak a word against Mao Zedong? The CCP 
has always emphasized iron discipline, loyalty to the Party, and organizational 
principles, requiring absolute obedience to the hierarchy’s leader. This kind of 
party nature has been engrained in the continuous political struggles. 
Li Lisan, once a CCP leader, was driven to the end of his rope during the 
Cultural Revolution. At 68 years of age, he was interrogated on average seven 
times per month. His wife Li Sha was treated as the "Soviet revisionist" spy, 
and had already been sent to jail; her whereabouts were unknown. With no other 
choice and in extreme despair, Li committed suicide by swallowing a large 
quantity of sleeping pills. Before his death, Li Lisan wrote a letter to Mao 
Zedong, truly reflecting the "sense of Party nature,” according to which a CCP 
member does not dare to give up, even on the verge of death: 
Chairman, 
I am now stepping onto the path of betraying the Party by committing suicide, 
and have no means to defend my crime. Only one thing, that is, my entire family 
and I have never collaborated with enemy states. Only on this issue, I request 
the central government to investigate and examine the facts and draw conclusions 
based on truth... 
Li Lisan
June 22, 1967 [13]
While Mao Zedong's philosophy of struggle eventually dragged China into an 
unprecedented catastrophe, this kind of political campaign and the inner-party 
struggle, which is widespread once "every seven or eight years,” have ensured 
the survival of the CCP. Every time there was a campaign, a minority of five 
percent would be persecuted, and the remaining 95 percent would be brought to an 
obedient adherence to the Party’s basic line, thereby enhancing the Party 
organization's cohesive force and destructive capacity. These struggles also 
eliminated those "faltering" members who were not willing to give up their 
conscience, and attacked any force that dared to resist. Through this mechanism 
of struggle, those CCP members who have the greatest desire for struggle and are 
best at using the methods of hoodlums have gained control. The CCP cult leaders 
are all fearless people rich in the experience of struggle and full of the Party 
spirit. Such brutal struggle also gives those who have experienced it a "blood 
lesson" and violent brainwashing. At the same time, it continuously energizes 
the CCP, further strengthening its desire for struggle, ensuring its survival, 
and preventing it from becoming a temperate group that gives up the struggle. 
This kind of party nature required by the CCP has come precisely from the CCP's 
cult nature. In order to realize its goal, the CCP is determined to break away 
from all traditional principles, and use all means to fight unhesitatingly with 
any force that hinders it. Therefore it needs to train and enslave all its 
members to become the Party’s heartless, unjust and faithless tool. This nature 
of the CCP originates from its hatred toward human society and traditions, its 
delusional self-evaluation, and its extreme selfishness and contempt for other 
people’s lives. In order to achieve its so-called ideal, the CCP used violence 
at all costs to smash the world and eliminate all dissidents. Such an evil cult 
would meet with opposition from people of conscience, so it must eliminate 
people's conscience and benevolent thoughts to make people believe in its evil 
doctrine. Therefore, in order to ensure its survival, the CCP first of all must 
destroy people's conscience, benevolent thoughts and moral standards, turning 
people into tame slaves and tools. According to the CCP's logic, the Party's 
life and interest override everything else; they even override the collective 
interest of all Party members, thus any individual Party member must be prepared 
to sacrifice for the Party. 
Looking at the CCP's history, individuals who retained the mindset of 
traditional intellectuals like Chen Duxiu and Qu Qiubai, or who still cared 
about people’s interests like Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang, or who are determined 
to be clean officials and bring real service to the people such as Zhu Rongji—no 
matter how much they contributed to the Party, and no matter how devoid of 
personal ambitions they were, they were inevitably purged, cast aside, or 
restricted by the Party's interests and discipline. 
The sense of Party nature or the aptitude for the Party that was fostered in 
their bones over many years of struggle often made them compromise and surrender 
in critical moments, because in their subconscious, the Party's survival is the 
highest interest. They would rather sacrifice themselves and watch the evil 
force within the Party commit murder, than challenge the Party’s survival with 
their conscientious and compassionate thoughts. This is precisely the result of 
the CCP's mechanism of struggle: it turns good people into tools that it uses, 
and uses the Party nature to limit and even eliminate human conscience to the 
greatest extent. Dozens of the CCP’s "line struggles" brought down more than 10 
top-level Party leaders or designated successors; none of the top Party leaders 
came to a good end. Although Mao Zedong had been the king for 43 years, shortly 
after he died, his wife and nephew were put in jail, which was cheered by the 
entire Party as a great victory of Maoism. Is this a comedy or a farce? 
After the CCP seized political power, there were unceasing political campaigns, 
from inner-party fights to struggles outside the Party. This was the case during 
the Mao Zedong era, and is still the case in the post-Mao era of "reform and 
openness.” In the 1980's, when people just began to have a slight bit of freedom 
in their thinking, the CCP launched the campaign of "Opposition to Bourgeois 
Liberalization," and proposed "the Four Fundamental Principles" [14] in order to 
maintain its absolute leadership. In 1989, the students who peacefully asked for 
democracy were bloodily suppressed because the CCP does not allow democratic 
aspirations. The 1990's witnessed a rapid increase in Falun Gong practitioners 
who believe in Truthfulness, Compassion and Tolerance, but they were met with 
genocidal persecution beginning in 1999, because the CCP cannot tolerate human 
nature and benevolent thoughts. It must use violence to destroy people’s 
conscience and ensure its own power. Since entering the 21st century, the 
Internet has connected the world together, but the CCP has spent great sums of 
money in setting up network blockades to trap online liberals, because the CCP 
greatly fears people freely obtaining information. 
******************
VI. The Degeneration of the Evil Cult of the CCP 
The CCP evil cult essentially rules in opposition to human nature and the 
principles of heaven. The CCP is known for its arrogance, self-importance, 
selfishness, and brutal, unrestrained acts. It consistently brings disasters to 
the country and the people, yet it never admits its mistakes, and would never 
reveal its true nature to the people. The CCP has never hesitated to change its 
slogans and labels, which are regarded by the CCP as the means to maintain its 
control. It will do anything to keep in power with total disregard for morality, 
justice and human life. 
The institutionalization and socialization of this evil cult are bound to lead 
to its collapse. As a result of the centralization of power, public opinion has 
been silenced and all possible monitoring mechanisms have been destroyed, 
leaving no force to stop the CCP from sliding into corruption and disintegration 

Today’s CCP has become the largest ruling “party of embezzlement and corruption” 
in the world. According to official statistics in China, among the 20 million 
officials, officers or cadres in the Party or government over the past 20 years, 
eight million have been found guilty of corruption and disciplined or punished 
based on party or government regulations. If the unidentified corrupt officials 
are also taken into account, the corrupt party and government officials are 
estimated to be at over two thirds, only a small portion of whom have been 
investigated and exposed. 
Securing material benefits by means of corruption and extortion has become the 
strongest coherent force for the unity of the CCP today. The corrupt officials 
know that without the CCP, they would have no opportunity to connive for 
personal gain, and if the CCP falls, they would not only lose their power and 
position, but also face investigation. In Heaven’s Wrath, a novel that exposes 
behind-the-scenes dealings of the CCP officials, the author Chen Fang spelled 
out the CCP’s top secret using the mouth of Hao Xiangshou, a deputy director of 
a municipal CCP office, “corruption has stabilized our political power.” 
The Chinese people see it clearly, “if we fight corruption, the party will fall; 
if we do not fight corruption, the nation will perish.” The CCP, however, will 
not risk its own doom to fight corruption. What it will do is to kill a few 
corrupt individuals as a token sacrifice for the sake of its image. This 
prolongs its life for a few more years at the expense of a small number of 
corrupt elements. Today, the only goals of the CCP evil cult are to keep its 
power and steer clear from its demise. 
In today’s China, ethics and morality have degenerated beyond recognition. 
Shoddy products, prostitutes, drugs, conspiracies between officials and gangs, 
organized crime syndicates, gambling, bribery—corruption of every kind is 
prevalent. The CCP has largely ignored such moral decay, while many high ranking 
officials are the bosses in the back room who are extorting protection fees from 
people who are afraid. Cai Shaoqing, an expert studying mafia and crime 
organizations at Nanjing University, estimates that the number of organized 
crime members in China totals at least one million. Each syndicate figure 
captured always exposes some behind–the-scenes corrupt Communists who are 
government officials, judges, or police. 
The CCP is afraid the Chinese people might gain a sense of conscience and 
morality, so it does not dare to allow the people to have faith in religion or 
freedom of thought. It uses all its resources to persecute the good people who 
have faith, such as the underground Christians who believe in Jesus and God and 
the Falun Gong practitioners who seek to be Truthful, Compassionate and 
Tolerant. The CCP is afraid that democracy would end its one-party rule, so it 
does not dare to give people political freedom. It acts swiftly to imprison 
independent liberals and civil rights activists. It does, however, give people a 
deviated freedom. As long as you do not care about politics and do not oppose 
the CCP’s leadership, you may let your desires go in any way you want, even if 
it means you do wicked, unethical things. As a result the CCP deteriorates 
dramatically and social morality in China experiences an alarmingly sharp 
decline. 
“Blocking the road to heaven and opening the gate to hell” best describes how 
the evil cult of the CCP has devastated the Chinese society today. 
******************
VII. Reflections on the Evil Rule of the CCP 
What Is the Communist Party? 
This seemingly simple question has no simple answers. Under the pretense of 
being “for the public” and in the guise of a political party, the Communist 
Party has indeed deceived millions of people. And yet it is not a political 
party in the ordinary sense, but a harmful and evil cult possessed by an evil 
specter. The Communist Party is a living being who manifests in this world 
through the Party organizations. What truly controls the Communist Party is the 
evil specter that first entered it, and it is that evil specter that determines 
the evil nature of the Communist Party. 
The leaders of the Communist Party, while acting as the gurus of the cult, serve 
only as the mouthpiece of the evil specter and the Party. When their will and 
purpose are in line with the Party and can be used by it, they will be chosen as 
leaders. But when they can no longer meet the needs of the Party, they will be 
ruthlessly overthrown. The mechanism of struggle of the Party makes sure that 
only the craftiest, the most evil, and the toughest ones will hold steadily to 
the position of guru of the Communist Party. A dozen or so ranking party leaders 
have fallen from grace, which proves the truth of this argument. In fact, the 
top leaders of the Party are walking on a very narrow tight rope. They can 
either break away from the Party line and leave a good name in history, as 
Gorbachev did or be victimized by the Party like many general secretaries of the 
Party. 
The people are the targets of the Party’s enslavement and oppression. Under the 
Party’s rule, people have no rights to reject the Party. Instead, they are 
forced to accept the Party’s leadership and fulfill the obligation to sustain 
the Party. They are also subjected to regular cult type brainwashing under the 
threat of coercion from the Party. The CCP forces the whole nation to believe in 
and sustain this evil cult. This is rarely seen in the world today, and we have 
to recognize the CCP’s unmatchable skill in such oppression. 
The party members are a physical mass that has been used to fill up the body of 
the Party. Many among them are honest and kind, and may even be quite 
accomplished in their public life. These are the people the CCP likes to 
recruit, since their reputation and competence may used to serve the Party. Many 
others, out of their desire to become an official and enjoy a higher social 
status, would work hard to join the Party and aid the evil being. There are also 
those who chose to join the Party because they want to accomplish something in 
their lives and realized that under the Communist rule they could not do so 
unless they joined the Party. Some joined the Party because they wanted the 
allocation of an apartment or simply wanted a better image. Thus among the tens 
of millions of Party members, there are both good and bad people. Regardless of 
motives, once you swear your allegiance in front of the Party’s flag, willingly 
or otherwise, that means you have voluntarily devoted yourself to the Party. You 
will then go through the brainwashing process by participating in the weekly 
political studies. A significant number of Party members will have little if any 
of their own thoughts left and would be easily controlled by the evil specter of 
the CCP host body as a result of the indoctrination by the Party. These people 
will function within the Party like the cells of a human body, and work non-stop 
for the Party’s existence, even though they themselves are also part of the 
population enslaved by the Party. Sadder still, after the bondage of the “party 
nature” is imposed on you, it becomes very hard to take it off. Once you show 
your human side, you will be purged or persecuted. You cannot withdraw from the 
Party on your own even if you want to, for the Party, with its entrance-yes and 
exit-no policy, would regard you as a traitor. That is why people often reveal a 
dual-nature: in their political life the nature of the Communist Party, and in 
their daily life human nature. 
The Party cadres are a group that retains power among Party members. Though they 
may have choices between good and bad and make their own decisions on specific 
occasions, at specific times, and specific events, they, as a whole, have to 
follow the will of the Party. The mandate dictates “the whole Party obeys the 
Central Committee.” The Party cadres are the leaders at different levels; they 
are the Party’s backbones. They too are merely tools for the Party. They, too, 
have been deceived, used and victimized during the past political movements. The 
CCP’s underlying criterion is to test whether you are following the right guru 
and are sincere in your devotion. 
Why Do People Remain Unaware? 
The CCP has acted viciously and wickedly throughout its more than 50-year rule 
over China. But why do the Chinese people lack a realistic understanding of the 
CCP’s evil nature? Is it because the Chinese are dumb? No. The Chinese 
constitute one of the wisest nations in the world and boast a rich traditional 
culture and heritage of 5000 years. Yet the Chinese people are still living 
under the CCP’s rule, completely afraid of expressing their discontent. The key 
lies in the mind-control practiced by the CCP. 
If the Chinese people enjoyed freedom of expression and could debate openly the 
merits and demerits of the CCP, we could imagine the Chinese would have long ago 
seen through the evil nature of the CCP and freed themselves from the influence 
of this evil cult. Unfortunately, the Chinese people lost their freedom of 
expression and thought over half a century ago with the advent of the CCP’s 
rule. The purpose behind persecution of the rightists among the intellectuals in 
1957 was to restrain free expression and to control people’s minds. In a society 
so lacking fundamental freedoms, most of the youth who had wholeheartedly 
studied the works of Marx and Engels during the Cultural Revolution have 
ironically been labeled as an “anti-Party clique” and are subsequently 
persecuted. Discussing the CCP’s rights and wrongs was simply out of the 
question. 
Not many Chinese would even dare to think of calling the CCP an evil cult. 
However, were that assertion made, those who have lived in China would not find 
it hard to discover strong evidence supporting the argument, from both their own 
experience and those of their family and friends. 
The Chinese people have not only been deprived of freedom of thought, they have 
also been indoctrinated with the teachings and culture of the Party. Thus, all 
that people could hear have been the praises of the Party, and their minds have 
been impoverished of any thought other than ideas that reinforce the CCP. Take 
the Tiananmen Massacre for example. When shots were fired on June 4th, 1989, 
many people instinctively ran to hide in the bushes. Moments later, despite the 
risks, they came bravely out of hiding and sang “The Internationale” together. 
These Chinese were indeed courageous, innocent and respectable, yet why did they 
sing “The Internationale,” the Communist anthem, when confronted with the 
Communist killing? The reason is simple. Educated in the Party’s culture, all 
the pitiable people know is Communism. Those in Tiananmen Square did not know 
any other songs than “The Internationale” and a few more ones that praise the 
Communist Party. 
What Is the Way Out? 
The CCP has been moving towards its complete doom. Sadly, it is still trying to 
tie its fate to the Chinese nation before its demise. 
The dying CCP is apparently weakening and its control over people’s minds is 
loosening. With the advance of telecommunications and the Internet, the CCP is 
finding it difficult to control information and suppress expression. As the 
corrupt officials increasingly plunder and oppress the people, the public is 
beginning to wake up from their illusions about the CCP, and many of them have 
started to exercise civil disobedience. The CCP has not only failed to achieve 
its goal of increased ideological control in its persecution of Falun Gong, but 
also further weakened itself while revealing its absolute ruthlessness. This 
opportune moment has made people reconsider the CCP, paving the way for the 
Chinese nation to free itself from the ideological bondage and completely break 
away from the control of the Communist evil specter. 
Having lived under the evil rule of the CCP for over 50 years, the Chinese 
people do not need a violent revolution; rather, they need redemption of their 
souls. This can be achieved through self-help, and the first step towards that 
goal is to become aware of the evil nature of the CCP. 
The day will come when people cast aside the Party’s organizations that are 
attached to the state apparatus, allowing the social systems to function 
independently, backed up by the core forces of the society. With the passing of 
a dictatorial Party organization, the efficiency of the government will be 
improved and enhanced. And that day is right around the corner. In fact, as 
early as the 1980's, the reformers inside the Party advocated the idea of 
“separating the Party from the government,” in an attempt to exclude the Party 
from the government. The reform efforts from within the CCP have proven to be 
inadequate and unsuccessful when the notion of “the absolute leadership of the 
Party” is not totally rejected ideologically. 
The Party culture is the environment necessary for the survival of the communist 
evil cult. Removing the CCP’s possession of people’s minds may prove to be more 
difficult than clearing out the CCP’s possession of state administrations, but 
such a removal is the only way to truly uproot the evil of Communism. This can 
be achieved only through the efforts of the Chinese people themselves. With 
their minds set right and human nature returned to its original state, the 
public would regain its morality and succeed in a transition to a decent 
non-Communist society. The cure for this evil possession lies in the recognition 
of the evil specter’s nature and harmfulness, eradicating it from people’s 
minds, and clearing it out, so that it has no place to hide. The Communist Party 
stresses ideological control, since it is nothing but an ideology itself. That 
ideology will dissipate when all Chinese reject the Communist falsehood in their 
minds, actively wipe out the Party culture, and rid their own mentalities and 
lives of the influences from the communist evil cult. As people save themselves, 
the CCP will disintegrate. 
Nations ruled by Communists are associated with poverty, totalitarianism, and 
persecution. There are very few such nations left, including China, North Korea, 
Vietnam, and Cuba. Their days are numbered. 
With the wisdom of the Chinese people, backed by the inspiration of the 
historical glory of the Chinese nation, a China freed from the evil possession 
of communism will be a promising nation. 
******************
Conclusion 
The CCP no longer believes in communism. Its soul has died, but its shadow 
remains. It has inherited only the ‘skin’ of communism, but still manifests the 
nature of an evil cult: arrogance, conceit and selfishness, and indulgence in 
wanton destructiveness. The CCP has inherited the Communist denial of the law of 
heaven, and its rejection of human nature has remained unchanged. 
Today, the CCP continues to rule China with the methods of struggle mastered 
over the years, using its close-knit organizational system coupled with the 
ruling form of “Party possession,” as well as evil propaganda that functions as 
a state-religion. The six features of the Communist Party outlined previously 
place today’s CCP firmly within the definition of an “evil cult’: it does no 
good, only evil. 
As it nears death, this Communist evil cult is accelerating the pace of its 
corruption and degeneration. What is most troublesome is that it is stubbornly 
doing what it can to take the Chinese nation with it into an abyss of corruption 
and degeneration. 
The Chinese need to help themselves; they need to reflect, and they need to 
shake off the CCP. 
Notes: 
[1] “The leopard has died, but its skin is still left” is from the ancient 
Chinese book of prophecy, the Plum Blossom Poem by Shao Yong (1011-1077). The 
leopard here refers to the geographic territory of the former Soviet Union, 
which indeed resembles a running leopard in shape. With the collapse of the 
former Soviet Union, the essence of the communist system has disintegrated, 
leaving only the “skin” (the form), which the Chinese Communist Party inherited. 

[2] Constitution of the People's Republic of China (official translation, 1999).
[3] From Historical Investigation of Mao Zedong’s Purge of “AB Corps” in Soviet 
Area, Jiangxi Province written by Gao Hua. The “AB Corps” incident refers to the 
“Anti-Bolshevik Corps” operation in 1930, when Mao ordered the killing of 
thousands of Party members, Red Army soldiers, and innocent civilians in Jiangxi 
province in an attempt to consolidate his power in the CCP-controlled areas.
[4] From Mao’s “Report on an Investigation of the Peasant Movement in Hunan” 
(1927).
[5] Mount Tai (Taishan) is the first of five famous mountains in Shandong 
Province, China. It has been a UN world heritage site since 1987.
[6] The Land Enclosure Movement relates to a dark side of the economic reforms 
of China. Similar to the industrial revolution in England (1760-1850), 
agricultural lands in today’s China have been demarcated to build various 
economic zones at all levels (county, city, provincial and state). As a result 
of the land enclosure, Chinese farmers have been losing their land. In the 
cities, residents in older city and town districts were frequently forced to 
relocate so as to vacate the land for commercial development with minimal 
compensation for the residents. More information is available at: 
http://www.uglychinese.org/enclosure.htm.
[7] Two intellectuals who were tortured to death by the CCP during the Great 
Cultural Revolution for disbelieving in the CCP and being outspoken in telling 
the truth.
[8] It refers to the Russian bourgeois revolution in February 1917, which took 
the throne of the Tsar.
[9] The October Revolution, also known as the Bolshevik Revolution, was led by 
Lenin and occurred in October of 1917. The revolution murdered the 
revolutionaries of the capitalist class who had overthrown the Tsar, thus 
strangling Russia’s bourgeois revolution. 
[10] Both the “Mari Incident” and the “April 12th Massacre” refer to the 
Kuomintang’s attacks on the CCP. The “Mari Incident” happened on May 21, 1927, 
in Changsha City of Hunan province. The “April 12th Massacre” occurred on April 
12, 1927 in Shanghai. In both cases, some CCP members and pro-CCP activists were 
attacked, arrested or killed. 
[11] Liu Di, a political officer of the 20th Red Army who was accused of being a 
member of “AB Corps,” led a revolt in Futian charging Li Shaojiu as a 
counter-revolutionary. They took over the control of Futian city and released 
more than 100 arrested for the “AB Corps,” and shouted the “Down with Mao 
Zedong” slogan.
[12] Peng Dehuai (1898-1974): Communist Chinese general and political leader. 
Peng was the chief commander in the Korean War, vice-premier of the State 
Council, Politburo member, and Minister of Defense from 1954-1959. He was 
removed from his official posts after disagreeing with Mao’s Leftist approaches 
at the CCP’s Lushan Plenum in 1959.
[13] From “Li Lisan: The Person for Whom Four Memorial Services Have Been Held.”
[14] The four principles are: socialist path, dictatorship of the proletariat, 
the CCP’s leadership, and Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.
