From t-cole3 at uiuc.edu  Sun Apr  3 12:53:34 2005
From: t-cole3 at uiuc.edu (Timothy W. Cole)
Date: Sun Apr  3 15:31:56 2005
Subject: [OAI-general] Report on Applications for Automated Metadata
	Generation
Message-ID: <200504031653.j33GrYdL002956@expredir6.cites.uiuc.edu>

The final report described below (and issued last week) is an outgrowth of
the Library of Congress Bibliographic Control Action Plan. Though not
specific to OAI-PMH, I thought it might be of interest since so many of us
are involved in metadata generation and processing.

Tim Cole
University of Illinois at UC  

FORWARDED MESSAGE:
>>> From John D Byrum 03/28/05 12:08 PM >>>
The Library of Congress is pleased to announce publications of the final
report for the AMeGA (Automatic Metadata Generation Applications) project.

	Greenberg, J., Spurgin, K., and Crystal, A.  (2005).
	Final Report for the AMeGA (Automatic Metadata Generation
	Applications) Project.  Submitted to the Library of Congress
	February, 17, 2005. Available at:
	http://www.loc.gov/catdir/bibcontrol/lc_amega_final_report.pdf

The final report can also be found on the Library of Congress Web site for
the Bicentennial Conference on Bibliographic Control for the New Millennium
at http://www.loc.gov/catdir/bibcontrol/actionplan.html, which seeks to
provide leadership to libraries and other information centers in confronting
the challenges of networked resources and the Web.

Dr. Greenberg served as Principal Investigator (PI) for the AMeGA project, a
research grant which lasted a full year. AMeGA stands for _A_utomatic
_Me_tadata _G_eneration _A_pplications project and the project had for goal
to identify and recommend functionalities for applications supporting
automatic metadata generation in the library/bibliographic control
community. The project was conducted in connection Section 4.2 of the
Library of Congress Bibliographic Control Action Plan.  The Action Plan's
charge for section 4.2 is to "Develop specifications for a tool that will
enable libraries to extract [and harvest] metadata from Web-based resources
in order to create catalog records and that will detect and report changes
in resource content and bibliographic data in order to maintain those
records. Communicate the specifications to the vendor community and
encourage their adoption."

The AMeGA research project pursed three main goals:

1) Evaluate the current automatic metadata generation applications (in the
following categories: document presentation software, tools created
specifically for metadata generation, and online library cataloging modules
for creating metadata);

2) Survey metadata professionals to get a consensus on which aspects of
metadata generation are most amenable to automation and semi-automation; and

3) Compile a final report of recommended functionalities for automatic
metadata generation applications. The final report was reviewed and endorsed
by the Metadata Generation Task Force (MGTF).

The report acknowledges the contributions of the MGTF members for their
participation and their expert advice.  In addition, since the final report
was based partially on survey data gathered from a variety of participants
that were recruited via a number of listservs, Dr. Greenberg also expressed
her gratitude for input of the survey participants, both for the quality and
depth of their responses.

To find out more about the AMeGA project, please go to AMeGA Project Web
site:  http://ils.unc.edu/mrc/amega.htm

Apologies for cross-posting that may occur.


From julien at netpreserve.org  Sun Apr  3 17:03:47 2005
From: julien at netpreserve.org (=?ISO-8859-1?Q?Julien_Masan=E8s?=)
Date: Mon Apr  4 09:15:38 2005
Subject: [OAI-general] CfP: 5th International Web Archiving Workshop and
	Digital Preservation
Message-ID: <200504032104.j33L41Ur031712@rs6.luxsci.com>

Call for paper: 5th International Web Archiving Workshop and Digital 
Preservation (IWAW'05)

To be held in conjunction with the 9th European Conference on Research 
and Advanced Technologies for Digital Libraries

September 22-23 2005, Vienna, Austria

Objectives
==-=-=-=-=-
Following the great success of the first four International Workshops 
on Web Archiving, we are happy to invite you to the fith Workshop in 
this series.

The workshop will provide a cross domain overview on active research 
and practice in all domains concerned with the acquisition, maintenance 
and preservation of digital objects for long-term access, with a 
particular focus on web archiving and studies on effective usage of 
this type of archives.

Topics
=-=-=-
Topics of interest include but are not limited to:

-Web Archiving Projects
-Digital Archeology
-Policy and Social Issues relevant to Web Archiving
-Cyberculture Studies
-Web Metrics
-Web Publishing Models
-Crawling Technology
-Deep Web Capture
-Site Architecture Migration
-Web Indexing
-Collection Analysis

Important dates
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Paper submission
June 1, 2005

Notification of acceptance
July 18, 2005

Camera-ready copy due
August 8, 2005

See more on:
http://www.iwaw.net/


From herbertv at lanl.gov  Mon Apr 11 12:08:10 2005
From: herbertv at lanl.gov (herbert van de sompel)
Date: Mon Apr 11 12:08:17 2005
Subject: [OAI-general] International Ticer School: Open Access and
	Institutional Repositories
Message-ID: <425AA0EA.9090900@lanl.gov>

The International Ticer School offers a brand new, modular course for librarians 
and publishers: "Digital Libraries ? la Carte: Choices for the Future". The 
course will be held at Tilburg University, the Netherlands, 21-26 August 2005.

Module 4 (Thursday 25 August) of the course focuses on ?Open Access and 
Institutional Repositories?. The program features:

? The Open Access Movement as Five-Act Play by Richard Poynder, freelance 
journalist, UK

When in 1665 Henry Oldenburg created Philosophical Transactions for the Royal 
Society of London he created the first peer-reviewed journal, and a model for 
scholarly communication that changed very little for the next 300 years. Since 
the 1970s, however, the settled world of scholarly publishing has been buffeted 
by three disruptive forces; forces that have given rise to the Open Access 
movement and led to growing demands that scholarly articles should no longer be 
subject to the access barriers imposed by constantly-rising journal 
subscriptions, but made freely available on the Web. Like all good dramas 
today's crisis in scholarly communication includes a rich cast of characters, a 
potent mix of conflicting interests, and a plot in need of speedy resolution. 
Who are these actors, what are the conflicts, and how will the plot be resolved?

? Open Access to Science and Scholarship by Peter Suber, Open Access Project 
Director, Public Knowledge, Washington, D.C. and Research Professor of 
Philosophy, Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana, USA

Once one is acquainted with the basics of open access, many questions remain. 
Why does OA depend primarily on the decisions of researchers themselves? What 
can universities do to promote OA? What can librarians do to promote OA? What 
can funding agencies do to promote OA? What can we learn from the public-access 
policy of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH)? Peter Suber will address 
these questions and show how different stakeholders can improve the system of 
scholarly communication, share knowledge, and accelerate research.

? Practical Workshop on Institutional Repositories by Sylvia Van Peteghem, Chief 
Librarian, University of Ghent, Belgium, and Esther Hoorn, Information 
Specialist and Researcher Law and ICT, University of Groningen Library, the 
Netherlands.

To guarantee a highly interactive programme, the number of participants is 
limited to 45, lectures contain an interactive component, and the modules is 
concluded with a practical workshop.

The course website is at <http://www.ticer.nl/05carte/>. It lists the full 
programme, the complete list of lecturers with short bios, abstracts of most 
presentations and practical information about course fee and registration. 
Registrations before 1 June 2005 get a ?150 discount.

Further information
Ms Jola Prinsen
Course Manager Ticer B.V.
P.O. Box 4191
5004 JD Tilburg
The Netherlands
tel. +31 13 466 8310
fax  +31 13 466 8383
e-mail jola.prinsen@uvt.nl
www.ticer.nl/05carte/




From krichel at openlib.org  Wed Apr 20 20:17:46 2005
From: krichel at openlib.org (Thomas Krichel)
Date: Thu Apr 21 09:18:03 2005
Subject: [OAI-general] OAI4 call for contributions and participation
Message-ID: <20050421001746.GA2511@openlib.org>

  The Organizing Committee invites you to attend the CERN Workshop on
  Innovations in Scholarly Communication (OAI4) from 20th-22nd October
  2005. This fourth workshop in the series, which began life as the Open
  Archives Initiative Workshop in 2001, is a forum for technical issues
  associated with scholarly communication.

  Details are found on the conference web site http://cern.ch/oai4 where
  registration will open from 2nd May 2005.

  For the first time, a call for contributions is being made. Submissions
  are welcome from 2nd until 31st May 2005. Contributions to the technical
  session on Thursday 20 October will deal with the latest in computing
  and information technology that can be used in scholarly communication 
  or that has been specifically designed for such use.  For the Friday,
  21 October sessions, we invite contributions on innovative applications
  of OAI technologies to scholarly communication and issues connected 
  with managing repositories and the relationships with publishers. For
  the session on Saturday morning, we invite contributions on how OAI 
  technologies can be used to enhance the distribution of primary
  scientific data.

  We also invite suggestions for breakout sessions as well as posters 
  for a poster session. These contributions can deal with any issue 
  related innovation in the scholarly communication process.

  Confirmed sessions are already entered into the agenda but check back 
  from time to time to see the new slots as these are added. Conference 
  announcements will also be placed on the website http://cern.ch/oai4

  On behalf of the OAI4 Organising Committee,


  Thomas Krichel                      mailto:krichel@openlib.org
                                 http://openlib.org/home/krichel
                             RePEc:per:1965-06-05:thomas_krichel


